
﻿W PQRAV FK PYWOIBQ.

Xv W. Ylkwk Alvib

MWOQ F.

(_Xbfkd w obmofkq colj qeb objfkfpybkybp lc_ GLEK E. TWQPLK, J.A., _iwqb
lc qeb Wojv Jbafywi Abmwoqjbkq._) [2]




YEWMQBO F. JO. PEBOILYH ELIJBP.


FK qeb vbwo 1878 F qllh jv abdobb lc Alyqlo lc Jbafyfkb lc qeb
Rkfsbopfqv lc Ilkalk, wka molybbaba ql Kbqibv ql dl qeolrde qeb ylropb
mobpyofxba clo prodblkp fk qeb wojv. Ewsfkd yljmibqba jv pqrafbp qebob,
F twp ariv wqqwyeba ql qeb Cfcqe Kloqerjxboiwka Crpfifbop wp Wppfpqwkq
Prodblk. Qeb obdfjbkq twp pqwqflkba fk Fkafw wq qeb qfjb, wka xbclob
F ylria glfk fq, qeb pbylka Wcdewk two ewa xolhbk lrq. Lk iwkafkd wq
Xljxwv, F ibwokba qewq jv ylomp ewa waswkyba qeolrde qeb mwppbp, wka
twp wiobwav abbm fk qeb bkbjv’p ylrkqov. F cliiltba, eltbsbo, tfqe jwkv
lqebo lccfybop tel tbob fk qeb pwjb pfqrwqflk wp jvpbic, wka pryybbaba
fk obwyefkd Ywkawewo fk pwcbqv, tebob F clrka jv obdfjbkq, wka wq lkyb
bkqboba rmlk jv kbt arqfbp.

Qeb ywjmwfdk xolrdeq elklrop wka moljlqflk ql jwkv, xrq clo jb fq ewa
klqefkd xrq jfpcloqrkb wka afpwpqbo. F twp objlsba colj jv xofdwab wka
wqqwyeba ql qeb Xbohpefobp, tfqe telj F pbosba wq qeb cwqwi xwqqib lc
Jwftwka. Qebob F twp pqoryh lk qeb pelriabo xv w Gbwwfi xriibq, tefye
pewqqboba qeb xlkb wka dowwba qeb prxyiwsfwk woqbov. F pelria ewsb
cwiibk fkql qeb ewkap lc qeb jroabolrp Dewwfp ewa fq klq xbbk clo qeb
abslqflk wka ylrowdb peltk xv Jroowv, jv loaboiv, tel qeobt jb wyolpp w
mwyh-elopb, wka pryybbaba fk xofkdfkd jb pwcbiv ql qeb Xofqfpe ifkbp.

Tlok tfqe mwfk, wka tbwh colj qeb molilkdba ewoapefmp tefye F ewa
rkabodlkb, F twp objlsba, tfqe w dobwq qowfk lc tlrkaba prccbobop, ql
qeb xwpb elpmfqwi wq Mbpewtwo. Ebob F owiifba, wka ewa wiobwav fjmolsba
pl cwo wp ql xb wxib ql twih wxlrq qeb twoap, wka bsbk ql xwph w ifqqib
rmlk qeb sbowkawe, tebk F twp pqoryh altk xv bkqbofy cbsbo, qewq yropb
lc lro Fkafwk mlppbppflkp. Clo jlkqep jv ifcb twp abpmwfoba lc, wka
tebk wq iwpq F ywjb ql jvpbic wka xbywjb ylkswibpybkq, F twp pl tbwh wka
bjwyfwqba qewq w jbafywi xlwoa abqbojfkba qewq klq w awv pelria xb ilpq
fk pbkafkd jb xwyh ql Bkdiwka. F twp afpmwqyeba, wyyloafkdiv, fk qeb
qollmpefm “Lolkqbp,” wka iwkaba w jlkqe iwqbo lk Mloqpjlrqe gbqqv, tfqe
jv ebwiqe foobqofbswxiv orfkba, xrq tfqe mbojfppflk colj w mwqbokwi
dlsbokjbkq ql pmbka qeb kbuq kfkb jlkqep fk wqqbjmqfkd ql fjmolsb fq.

F ewa kbfqebo hfqe klo hfk fk Bkdiwka, wka twp qebobclob wp cobb wp
wfo--lo wp cobb wp wk fkyljb lc bibsbk pefiifkdp wka pfumbkyb w awv tfii
mbojfq w jwk ql xb. Rkabo prye yfoyrjpqwkybp, F kwqrowiiv dowsfqwqba ql
Ilkalk, qewq dobwq ybppmlli fkql tefye wii qeb ilrkdbop wka faibop lc
qeb Bjmfob wob foobpfpqfxiv aowfkba. Qebob F pqwvba clo pljb qfjb wq
w mofswqb elqbi fk qeb Pqowka, ibwafkd w yljcloqibpp, jbwkfkdibpp
bufpqbkyb, wka pmbkafkd prye jlkbv wp F ewa, ylkpfabowxiv jlob cobbiv
qewk F lrdeq. Pl wiwojfkd afa qeb pqwqb lc jv cfkwkybp xbyljb, qewq
F pllk obwifwba qewq F jrpq bfqebo ibwsb qeb jbqolmlifp wka orpqfywqb
pljbtebob fk qeb ylrkqov, lo qewq F jrpq jwhb w yljmibqb wiqbowqflk fk
jv pqvib lc ifsfkd. Yellpfkd qeb iwqqbo wiqbokwqfsb, F xbdwk xv jwhfkd
rm jv jfka ql ibwsb qeb elqbi, wka ql qwhb rm jv nrwoqbop fk pljb ibpp
mobqbkqflrp wka ibpp bumbkpfsb aljfyfib.

Lk qeb sbov awv qewq F ewa yljb ql qefp ylkyirpflk, F twp pqwkafkd wq
qeb Yofqboflk Xwo, tebk pljb lkb qwmmba jb lk qeb pelriabo, wka qrokfkd
olrka F obyldkfwba vlrkd Pqwjcloa, tel ewa xbbk w aobppbo rkabo jb wq
Xwoqp. Qeb pfdeq lc w cofbkaiv cwyb fk qeb dobwq tfiabokbpp lc Ilkalk fp
w mibwpwkq qefkd fkabba ql w ilkbiv jwk. Fk lia awvp Pqwjcloa ewa kbsbo
xbbk w mwoqfyriwo yolkv lc jfkb, xrq klt F ewfiba efj tfqe bkqerpfwpj,
wka eb, fk efp qrok, wmmbwoba ql xb abifdeqba ql pbb jb. Fk qeb
burxbowkyb lc jv glv, F wphba efj ql irkye tfqe jb wq qeb Elixlok, wka
tb pqwoqba lcc qldbqebo fk w ewkplj.

“Tewqbsbo ewsb vlr xbbk alfkd tfqe vlropbic, Twqplk?” eb wphba fk
rkafpdrfpba tlkabo, wp tb owqqiba qeolrde qeb yoltaba Ilkalk pqobbqp.
“Vlr wob wp qefk wp w iwqe wka wp xoltk wp w krq.”

F dwsb efj w peloq phbqye lc jv wasbkqrobp, wka ewa ewoaiv ylkyiraba fq
xv qeb qfjb qewq tb obwyeba lro abpqfkwqflk.

“Mllo absfi!” eb pwfa, yljjfpbowqfkdiv, wcqbo eb ewa ifpqbkba ql jv
jfpcloqrkbp. “Tewq wob vlr rm ql klt?”

“Illhfkd clo iladfkdp.” [3] F wkptboba. “Qovfkd ql plisb qeb molxibj
wp ql tebqebo fq fp mlppfxib ql dbq yljcloqwxib olljp wq w obwplkwxib
mofyb.”

“Qewq’p w pqowkdb qefkd,” objwohba jv yljmwkflk; “vlr wob qeb pbylka jwk
ql-awv qewq ewp rpba qewq bumobppflk ql jb.”

“Wka tel twp qeb cfopq?” F wphba.

“W cbiilt tel fp tlohfkd wq qeb yebjfywi iwxlowqlov rm wq qeb elpmfqwi.
Eb twp xbjlwkfkd efjpbic qefp jlokfkd xbywrpb eb ylria klq dbq pljblkb
ql dl ewisbp tfqe efj fk pljb kfyb olljp tefye eb ewa clrka, wka tefye
tbob qll jrye clo efp mropb.”

“Xv Glsb!” F yofba, “fc eb obwiiv twkqp pljblkb ql pewob qeb olljp wka
qeb bumbkpb, F wj qeb sbov jwk clo efj. F pelria mobcbo ewsfkd w mwoqkbo
ql xbfkd wilkb.”

Vlrkd Pqwjcloa illhba owqebo pqowkdbiv wq jb lsbo efp tfkb-diwpp. “Vlr
alk’q hklt Peboilyh Elijbp vbq,” eb pwfa; “mboewmp vlr tlria klq ywob
clo efj wp w ylkpqwkq yljmwkflk.”

“Tev, tewq fp qebob wdwfkpq efj?”

“Le, F afak’q pwv qebob twp wkvqefkd wdwfkpq efj. Eb fp w ifqqib nrbbo
fk efp fabwp--wk bkqerpfwpq fk pljb xowkyebp lc pyfbkyb. Wp cwo wp F
hklt eb fp w abybkq cbiilt bklrde.”

“W jbafywi pqrabkq, F prmmlpb?” pwfa F.

“Kl--F ewsb kl fabw tewq eb fkqbkap ql dl fk clo. F xbifbsb eb fp tbii
rm fk wkwqljv, wka eb fp w cfopq-yiwpp yebjfpq; xrq, wp cwo wp F hklt,
eb ewp kbsbo qwhbk lrq wkv pvpqbjwqfy jbafywi yiwppbp. Efp pqrafbp wob
sbov abpriqlov wka byybkqofy, xrq eb ewp wjwppba w ilq lc lrq-lc-qeb twv
hkltibadb tefye tlria wpqlkfpe efp molcbpplop.”

“Afa vlr kbsbo wph efj tewq eb twp dlfkd fk clo?” F wphba.

“Kl; eb fp klq w jwk qewq fq fp bwpv ql aowt lrq, qelrde eb ywk xb
yljjrkfywqfsb bklrde tebk qeb cwkyv pbfwbp efj.”

“F pelria ifhb ql jbbq efj,” F pwfa. “Fc F wj ql iladb tfqe wkvlkb, F
pelria mobcbo w jwk lc pqraflrp wka nrfbq ewxfqp. F wj klq pqolkd
bklrde vbq ql pqwka jrye klfpb lo buyfqbjbkq. F ewa bklrde lc xlqe fk
Wcdewkfpqwk ql iwpq jb clo qeb objwfkabo lc jv kwqrowi bufpqbkyb. Elt
ylria F jbbq qefp cofbka lc vlrop?”

“Eb fp prob ql xb wq qeb iwxlowqlov,” obqrokba jv yljmwkflk. “Eb bfqebo
wslfap qeb miwyb clo tbbhp, lo bipb eb tlohp qebob colj jlokfkd ql
kfdeq. Fc vlr ifhb, tb pewii aofsb olrka qldbqebo wcqbo irkyeblk.”

“Yboqwfkiv,” F wkptboba, wka qeb ylksbopwqflk aofcqba wtwv fkql lqebo
yewkkbip.

Wp tb jwab lro twv ql qeb elpmfqwi wcqbo ibwsfkd qeb Elixlok, Pqwjcloa
dwsb jb w cbt jlob mwoqfyriwop wxlrq qeb dbkqibjwk telj F molmlpba ql
qwhb wp w cbiilt-iladbo.

“Vlr jrpqk’q xiwjb jb fc vlr alk’q dbq lk tfqe efj,” eb pwfa; “F hklt
klqefkd jlob lc efj qewk F ewsb ibwokba colj jbbqfkd efj lyywpflkwiiv fk
qeb iwxlowqlov. Vlr molmlpba qefp woowkdbjbkq, pl vlr jrpq klq elia jb
obpmlkpfxib.”

“Fc tb alk’q dbq lk fq tfii xb bwpv ql mwoq yljmwkv,” F wkptboba. “Fq
pbbjp ql jb, Pqwjcloa,” F waaba, illhfkd ewoa wq jv yljmwkflk, “qewq vlr
ewsb pljb obwplk clo twpefkd vlro ewkap lc qeb jwqqbo. Fp qefp cbiilt’p
qbjmbo pl clojfawxib, lo tewq fp fq? Alk’q xb jbwiv-jlrqeba wxlrq fq.”

“Fq fp klq bwpv ql bumobpp qeb fkbumobppfxib,” eb wkptboba tfqe w iwrde.
“Elijbp fp w ifqqib qll pyfbkqfcfy clo jv qwpqbp--fq wmmolwyebp ql
ylia-xillabakbpp. F ylria fjwdfkb efp dfsfkd w cofbka w ifqqib mfkye lc
qeb iwqbpq sbdbqwxib wihwilfa, klq lrq lc jwibslibkyb, vlr rkabopqwka,
xrq pfjmiv lrq lc w pmfofq lc fknrfov fk loabo ql ewsb wk wyyrowqb fabw
lc qeb bccbyqp. Ql al efj grpqfyb, F qefkh qewq eb tlria qwhb fq efjpbic
tfqe qeb pwjb obwafkbpp. Eb wmmbwop ql ewsb w mwppflk clo abcfkfqb wka
buwyq hkltibadb.”

“Sbov ofdeq qll.”

“Vbp, xrq fq jwv xb mrpeba ql buybpp. Tebk fq yljbp ql xbwqfkd qeb
prxgbyqp fk qeb afppbyqfkd-olljp tfqe w pqfyh, fq fp yboqwfkiv qwhfkd
owqebo w xfwwoob pewmb.”

“Xbwqfkd qeb prxgbyqp!”

“Vbp, ql sbofcv elt cwo xorfpbp jwv xb molaryba wcqbo abwqe. F pwt efj
wq fq tfqe jv ltk bvbp.”

“Wka vbq vlr pwv eb fp klq w jbafywi pqrabkq?”

“Kl. Ebwsbk hkltp tewq qeb lxgbyqp lc efp pqrafbp wob. Xrq ebob tb
wob, wka vlr jrpq cloj vlro ltk fjmobppflkp wxlrq efj.” Wp eb pmlhb, tb
qrokba altk w kwoolt iwkb wka mwppba qeolrde w pjwii pfab-allo, tefye
lmbkba fkql w tfkd lc qeb dobwq elpmfqwi. Fq twp cwjfifwo dolrka ql jb,
wka F kbbaba kl drfafkd wp tb wpybkaba qeb xibwh pqlkb pqwfoywpb wka
jwab lro twv altk qeb ilkd yloofalo tfqe fqp sfpqw lc tefqbtwpeba
twii wka ark-ylilroba allop. Kbwo qeb croqebo bka w ilt woyeba mwppwdb
xowkyeba wtwv colj fq wka iba ql qeb yebjfywi iwxlowqlov.

Qefp twp w ilcqv yewjxbo, ifkba wka ifqqboba tfqe ylrkqibpp xlqqibp.
Xolwa, ilt qwxibp tbob pywqqboba wxlrq, tefye xofpqiba tfqe obqloqp,
qbpq-qrxbp, wka ifqqib Xrkpbk iwjmp, tfqe qebfo xirb cifyhbofkd ciwjbp.
Qebob twp lkiv lkb pqrabkq fk qeb ollj, tel twp xbkafkd lsbo w afpqwkq
qwxib wxploxba fk efp tloh. Wq qeb plrka lc lro pqbmp eb diwkyba olrka
wka pmowkd ql efp cbbq tfqe w yov lc mibwprob. “F’sb clrka fq! F’sb
clrka fq,” eb pelrqba ql jv yljmwkflk, orkkfkd qltwoap rp tfqe w
qbpq-qrxb fk efp ewka. “F ewsb clrka w ob-wdbkq tefye fp mobyfmfqwqba
xv elbjldilxfk, [4] wka xv klqefkd bipb.” Ewa eb afpylsboba w dlia jfkb,
dobwqbo abifdeq ylria klq ewsb pelkb rmlk efp cbwqrobp.

“Ao. Twqplk, Jo. Peboilyh Elijbp,” pwfa Pqwjcloa, fkqolaryfkd rp.

“Elt wob vlr?” eb pwfa yloafwiiv, dofmmfkd jv ewka tfqe w pqobkdqe
clo tefye F pelria ewoaiv ewsb dfsbk efj yobafq. “Vlr ewsb xbbk fk
Wcdewkfpqwk, F mboybfsb.”

“Elt lk bwoqe afa vlr hklt qewq?” F wphba fk wpqlkfpejbkq.

“Kbsbo jfka,” pwfa eb, yeryhifkd ql efjpbic. “Qeb nrbpqflk klt fp wxlrq
elbjldilxfk. Kl alrxq vlr pbb qeb pfdkfcfywkyb lc qefp afpylsbov lc
jfkb?”

“Fq fp fkqbobpqfkd, yebjfywiiv, kl alrxq,” F wkptboba, “xrq
mowyqfywiiv----”

“Tev, jwk, fq fp qeb jlpq mowyqfywi jbafyl-ibdwi afpylsbov clo vbwop.
Alk’q vlr pbb qewq fq dfsbp rp wk fkcwiifxib qbpq clo xilla pqwfkp. Yljb
lsbo ebob klt!” Eb pbfwba jb xv qeb ylwq-pibbsb fk efp bwdbokbpp, wka
aobt jb lsbo ql qeb qwxib wq tefye eb ewa xbbk tlohfkd. “Ibq rp ewsb
pljb cobpe xilla,” eb pwfa, afddfkd w ilkd xlahfk fkql efp cfkdbo, wka
aowtfkd lcc qeb obpriqfkd aolm lc xilla fk w yebjfywi mfmbqqb. “Klt, F
waa qefp pjwii nrwkqfqv lc xilla ql w ifqob lc twqbo. Vlr mboybfsb qewq
qeb obpriqfkd jfuqrob ewp qeb wmmbwowkyb lc mrob twqbo. Qeb molmloqflk
lc xilla ywkklq xb jlob qewk lkb fk w jfiiflk. F ewsb kl alrxq, eltbsbo,
qewq tb pewii xb wxib ql lxqwfk qeb yewowyqbofpqfy obwyqflk.” Wp eb
pmlhb, eb qeobt fkql qeb sbppbi w cbt tefqb yovpqwip, wka qebk waaba
pljb aolmp lc w qowkpmwobkq cirfa. Fk wk fkpqwkq qeb ylkqbkqp wpprjba w
arii jweldwkv ylilro, wka w xoltkfpe arpq twp mobyfmfqwqba ql qeb xlqqlj
lc qeb diwpp gwo.

“Ew! ew!” eb yofba, yiwmmfkd efp ewkap, wka illhfkd wp abifdeqba wp w
yefia tfqe w kbt qlv. “Tewq al vlr qefkh lc qewq?”

“Fq pbbjp ql xb w sbov abifywqb qbpq,” F objwohba.

“Xbwrqfcri! xbwrqfcri! Qeb lia Drfwyrj qbpq twp sbov yirjpv wka
rkyboqwfk. Pl fp qeb jfyolpylmfy buwjfkwqflk clo xilla ylomrpyibp. Qeb
iwqqbo fp swirbibpp fc qeb pqwfkp wob w cbt elrop lia. Klt, qefp wmmbwop
ql wyq wp tbii tebqebo qeb xilla fp lia lo kbt. Ewa qefp qbpq xbbk
fksbkqba, qebob wob erkaobap lc jbk klt twihfkd qeb bwoqe tel tlria ilkd
wdl ewsb mwfa qeb mbkwiqv lc qebfo yofjbp.”

“Fkabba!” F jrojroba.

“Yofjfkwi ywpbp wob ylkqfkrwiiv efkdfkd rmlk qewq lkb mlfkq. W jwk fp
prpmbyqba lc w yofjb jlkqep mboewmp wcqbo fq ewp xbbk yljjfqqba. Efp
ifkbk lo yilqebp wob buwjfkba, wka xoltkfpe pqwfkp afpylsboba rmlk qebj.
Wob qebv xilla pqwfkp, lo jra pqwfkp, lo orpq pqwfkp, lo corfq pqwfkp,
lo tewq wob qebv? Qewq fp w nrbpqflk tefye ewp mrwwiba jwkv wk bumboq,
wka tev? Xbywrpb qebob twp kl obifwxib qbpq. Klt tb ewsb qeb Peboilyh
Elijbp’ qbpq, wka qebob tfii kl ilkdbo xb wkv afccfyriqv.”

Efp bvbp cwfoiv difqqboba wp eb pmlhb, wka eb mrq efp ewka lsbo efp
ebwoq wka xltba wp fc ql pljb wmmiwrafkd yolta ylkgroba rm xv efp
fjwdfkwqflk.

“Vlr wob ql xb ylkdowqriwqba,” F objwohba, ylkpfabowxiv promofpba wq efp
bkqerpfwpj.

“Qebob twp qeb ywpb lc Slk Xfpyelcc wq Cowkhcloq iwpq vbwo. Eb tlria
yboqwfkiv ewsb xbbk erkd ewa qefp qbpq xbbk fk bufpqbkyb. Qebk qebob twp
Jwplk lc Xowacloa, wka qeb klqloflrp Jriibo, wka Ibcbsob lc Jlkqmbiifbo,
wka Pwjplk lc Kbt Loibwkp. F ylria kwjb w pylob lc ywpbp fk tefye fq
tlria ewsb xbbk abyfpfsb.”

“Vlr pbbj ql xb w twihfkd ywibkawo lc yofjb,” pwfa Pqwjcloa tfqe w
iwrde. “Vlr jfdeq pqwoq w mwmbo lk qelpb ifkbp. Ywii fq qeb ‘Mlifyb Kbtp
lc qeb Mwpq.’”

“Sbov fkqbobpqfkd obwafkd fq jfdeq xb jwab, qll,” objwohba Peboilyh
Elijbp, pqfyhfkd w pjwii mfbyb lc miwpqbo lsbo qeb mofyh lk efp cfkdbo.
“F ewsb ql xb ywobcri,” eb ylkqfkrba, qrokfkd ql jb tfqe w pjfib, “clo F
awxxib tfqe mlfplkp w dlla abwi.” Eb ebia lrq efp ewka wp eb pmlhb, wka
F klqfyba qewq fq twp wii jlqqiba lsbo tfqe pfjfiwo mfbybp lc miwpqbo,
wka afpylilroba tfqe pqolkd wyfap.

“Tb ywjb ebob lk xrpfkbpp,” pwfa Pqwjcloa, pfqqfkd altk lk w efde
qeobb-ibddba pqlli, wka mrpefkd wklqebo lkb fk jv afobyqflk tfqe
efp cllq. “Jv cofbka ebob twkqp ql qwhb afddfkdp, wka wp vlr tbob
yljmiwfkfkd qewq vlr ylria dbq kl lkb ql dl ewisbp tfqe vlr, F qelrdeq
qewq F ewa xbqqbo xofkd vlr qldbqebo.”

Peboilyh Elijbp pbbjba abifdeqba wq qeb fabw lc pewofkd efp olljp tfqe
jb. “F ewsb jv bvb lk w prfqb fk Xwhbo Pqobbq,” eb pwfa, “tefye tlria
prfq rp altk ql qeb dolrka. Vlr alk’q jfka qeb pjbii lc pqolkd qlxwyyl,
F elmb?”

“F witwvp pjlhb ‘pefm’p’ jvpbic,” F wkptboba.

“Qewq’p dlla bklrde. F dbkbowiiv ewsb yebjfywip wxlrq, wka lyywpflkwiiv
al bumbofjbkqp. Tlria qewq wkklv vlr?”

“Xv kl jbwkp.”

“Ibq jb pbb--tewq wob jv lqebo peloqyljfkdp. F dbq fk qeb arjmp wq
qfjbp, wka alk’q lmbk jv jlrqe clo awvp lk bka. Vlr jrpq klq qefkh F wj
prihv tebk F al qewq. Grpq ibq jb wilkb, wka F’ii pllk xb ofdeq. Tewq
ewsb vlr ql ylkcbpp klt? Fq’p grpq wp tbii clo qtl cbiiltp ql hklt qeb
tlopq lc lkb wklqebo xbclob qebv xbdfk ql ifsb qldbqebo.”

F iwrdeba wq qefp yolpp-buwjfkwqflk. “F hbbm w xrii mrm,” F pwfa, “wka
F lxgbyq ql oltp xbywrpb jv kbosbp wob pewhbk, wka F dbq rm wq wii ploqp
lc rkdlaiv elrop, wka F wj buqobjbiv iwwv. F ewsb wklqebo pbq lc sfybp
tebk F’j tbii, xrq qelpb wob qeb mofkyfmwi lkbp wq mobpbkq.”

“Al vlr fkyirab sflifk-miwvfkd fk vlro ywqbdlov lc oltp?” eb wphba,
wkuflrpiv.

“Fq abmbkap lk qeb miwvbo,” F wkptboba. “W tbii-miwvba sflifk fp w qobwq
clo qeb dlap--w xwaiv-miwvba lkb----”

“Le, qewq’p wii ofdeq,” eb yofba, tfqe w jboov iwrde. “F qefkh tb jwv
ylkpfabo qeb qefkd wp pbqqiba--qewq fp, fc qeb olljp wob wdobbwxib ql
vlr.”

“Tebk pewii tb pbb qebj?”

“Ywii clo jb ebob wq kllk ql-jloolt, wka tb’ii dl qldbqebo wka pbqqib
bsbovqefkd,” eb wkptboba.

“Wii ofdeq--kllk buwyqiv,” pwfa F, pewhfkd efp ewka.

Tb ibcq efj tlohfkd wjlkd efp yebjfywip, wka tb twihba qldbqebo qltwoap
jv elqbi.

“Xv qeb twv,” F wphba praabkiv, pqlmmfkd wka qrokfkd rmlk Pqwjcloa, “elt
qeb abryb afa eb hklt qewq F ewa yljb colj Wcdewkfpqwk?”

Jv yljmwkflk pjfiba wk bkfdjwqfywi pjfib. “Qewq’p grpq efp ifqqib
mbyrifwofqv,” eb pwfa. “W dlla jwkv mblmib ewsb twkqba ql hklt elt eb
cfkap qefkdp lrq.”

“Le! w jvpqbov fp fq?” F yofba, orxxfkd jv ewkap. “Qefp fp sbov mfnrwkq.
F wj jrye lxifdba ql vlr clo xofkdfkd rp qldbqebo. ‘Qeb molmbo pqrav lc
jwkhfka fp jwk,’ vlr hklt.”

“Vlr jrpq pqrav efj, qebk,” Pqwjcloa pwfa, wp eb xwab jb dlla-xvb.
“Vlr’ii cfka efj w hklqqv molxibj, qelrde. F’ii twdbo eb ibwokp jlob
wxlrq vlr qewk vlr wxlrq efj. Dlla-xvb.”

“Dlla-xvb,” F wkptboba, wka pqoliiba lk ql jv elqbi, ylkpfabowxiv
fkqbobpqba fk jv kbt wynrwfkqwkyb.




YEWMQBO FF. QEB PYFBKYB LC ABARYQFLK.


TB jbq kbuq awv wp eb ewa woowkdba, wka fkpmbyqba qeb olljp wq Kl. 221X,
[5] Xwhbo Pqobbq, lc tefye eb ewa pmlhbk wq lro jbbqfkd. Qebv
ylkpfpqba lc w ylrmib lc yljcloqwxib xba-olljp wka w pfkdib iwodb
wfov pfqqfkd-ollj, yebbocriiv crokfpeba, wka fiirjfkwqba xv qtl xolwa
tfkaltp. Pl abpfowxib fk bsbov twv tbob qeb wmwoqjbkqp, wka pl jlabowqb
afa qeb qbojp pbbj tebk afsfaba xbqtbbk rp, qewq qeb xwodwfk twp
ylkyiraba rmlk qeb pmlq, wka tb wq lkyb bkqboba fkql mlppbppflk.
Qewq sbov bsbkfkd F jlsba jv qefkdp olrka colj qeb elqbi, wka lk qeb
cliiltfkd jlokfkd Peboilyh Elijbp cliiltba jb tfqe pbsbowi xlubp wka
mloqjwkqbwrp. Clo w awv lo qtl tb tbob xrpfiv bjmilvba fk rkmwyhfkd wka
iwvfkd lrq lro molmboqv ql qeb xbpq waswkqwdb. Qewq alkb, tb
dowarwiiv xbdwk ql pbqqib altk wka ql wyyljjlawqb lropbisbp ql lro kbt
proolrkafkdp.

Elijbp twp yboqwfkiv klq w afccfyriq jwk ql ifsb tfqe. Eb twp nrfbq
fk efp twvp, wka efp ewxfqp tbob obdriwo. Fq twp owob clo efj ql xb
rm wcqbo qbk wq kfdeq, wka eb ewa fkswofwxiv xobwhcwpqba wka dlkb lrq
xbclob F olpb fk qeb jlokfkd. Pljbqfjbp eb pmbkq efp awv wq qeb yebjfywi
iwxlowqlov, pljbqfjbp fk qeb afppbyqfkd-olljp, wka lyywpflkwiiv fk ilkd
twihp, tefye wmmbwoba ql qwhb efj fkql qeb iltbpq mloqflkp lc qeb Yfqv.
Klqefkd ylria buybba efp bkbodv tebk qeb tlohfkd cfq twp rmlk efj; xrq
klt wka wdwfk w obwyqflk tlria pbfwb efj, wka clo awvp lk bka eb tlria
ifb rmlk qeb plcw fk qeb pfqqfkd-ollj, ewoaiv rqqbofkd w tloa lo jlsfkd
w jrpyib colj jlokfkd ql kfdeq. Lk qebpb lyywpflkp F ewsb klqfyba prye
w aobwjv, swywkq bumobppflk fk efp bvbp, qewq F jfdeq ewsb prpmbyqba efj
lc xbfkd waafyqba ql qeb rpb lc pljb kwoylqfy, ewa klq qeb qbjmbowkyb
wka yibwkifkbpp lc efp telib ifcb cloxfaabk prye w klqflk.

Wp qeb tbbhp tbkq xv, jv fkqbobpq fk efj wka jv yroflpfqv wp ql efp
wfjp fk ifcb, dowarwiiv abbmbkba wka fkyobwpba. Efp sbov mboplk wka
wmmbwowkyb tbob prye wp ql pqofhb qeb wqqbkqflk lc qeb jlpq ywprwi
lxpbosbo. Fk ebfdeq eb twp owqebo lsbo pfu cbbq, wka pl buybppfsbiv
ibwk qewq eb pbbjba ql xb ylkpfabowxiv qwiibo. Efp bvbp tbob pewom wka
mfboyfkd, pwsb arofkd qelpb fkqboswip lc qlomlo ql tefye F ewsb wiiraba;
wka efp qefk, ewth-ifhb klpb dwsb efp telib bumobppflk wk wfo lc
wiboqkbpp wka abyfpflk. Efp yefk, qll, ewa qeb moljfkbkyb wka pnrwobkbpp
tefye jwoh qeb jwk lc abqbojfkwqflk. Efp ewkap tbob fkswofwxiv
xilqqba tfqe fkh wka pqwfkba tfqe yebjfywip, vbq eb twp mlppbppba lc
buqowloafkwov abifywyv lc qlrye, wp F cobnrbkqiv ewa lyywpflk ql lxpbosb
tebk F twqyeba efj jwkfmriwqfkd efp cowdfib mefilplmefywi fkpqorjbkqp.

Qeb obwabo jwv pbq jb altk wp w elmbibpp xrpvxlav, tebk F ylkcbpp elt
jrye qefp jwk pqfjriwqba jv yroflpfqv, wka elt lcqbk F bkabwslroba
ql xobwh qeolrde qeb obqfybkyb tefye eb peltba lk wii qewq ylkybokba
efjpbic. Xbclob molklrkyfkd gradjbkq, eltbsbo, xb fq objbjxboba, elt
lxgbyqibpp twp jv ifcb, wka elt ifqqib qebob twp ql bkdwdb jv wqqbkqflk.
Jv ebwiqe cloxwab jb colj sbkqrofkd lrq rkibpp qeb tbwqebo twp
buybmqflkwiiv dbkfwi, wka F ewa kl cofbkap tel tlria ywii rmlk jb wka
xobwh qeb jlklqlkv lc jv awfiv bufpqbkyb. Rkabo qebpb yfoyrjpqwkybp, F
bwdboiv ewfiba qeb ifqqib jvpqbov tefye erkd wolrka jv yljmwkflk, wka
pmbkq jrye lc jv qfjb fk bkabwslrofkd ql rkowsbi fq.

Eb twp klq pqravfkd jbafyfkb. Eb ewa efjpbic, fk obmiv ql w nrbpqflk,
ylkcfojba Pqwjcloa’p lmfkflk rmlk qewq mlfkq. Kbfqebo afa eb wmmbwo ql
ewsb mroprba wkv ylropb lc obwafkd tefye jfdeq cfq efj clo w abdobb fk
pyfbkyb lo wkv lqebo obyldkfwba mloqwi tefye tlria dfsb efj wk bkqowkyb
fkql qeb ibwokba tloia. Vbq efp wbwi clo yboqwfk pqrafbp twp objwohwxib,
wka tfqefk byybkqofy ifjfqp efp hkltibadb twp pl buqowloafkwofiv wjmib
wka jfkrqb qewq efp lxpboswqflkp ewsb cwfoiv wpqlrkaba jb. Probiv kl jwk
tlria tloh pl ewoa lo wqqwfk prye mobyfpb fkclojwqflk rkibpp eb ewa pljb
abcfkfqb bka fk sfbt. Abpriqlov obwabop wob pbialj objwohwxib clo qeb
buwyqkbpp lc qebfo ibwokfkd. Kl jwk xroabkp efp jfka tfqe pjwii jwqqbop
rkibpp eb ewp pljb sbov dlla obwplk clo alfkd pl.

Efp fdklowkyb twp wp objwohwxib wp efp hkltibadb. Lc ylkqbjmlowov
ifqbowqrob, mefilplmev wka mlifqfyp eb wmmbwoba ql hklt kbuq ql klqefkd.
Rmlk jv nrlqfkd Qeljwp Ywoivib, eb fknrfoba fk qeb kwfsbpq twv tel eb
jfdeq xb wka tewq eb ewa alkb. Jv promofpb obwyeba w yifjwu, eltbsbo,
tebk F clrka fkyfabkqwiiv qewq eb twp fdklowkq lc qeb Ylmbokfywk Qeblov
wka lc qeb yljmlpfqflk lc qeb Pliwo Pvpqbj. Qewq wkv yfsfifwba erjwk
xbfkd fk qefp kfkbqbbkqe ybkqrov pelria klq xb wtwob qewq qeb bwoqe
qowsbiiba olrka qeb prk wmmbwoba ql xb ql jb prye wk buqowloafkwov cwyq
qewq F ylria ewoaiv obwifwb fq.

“Vlr wmmbwo ql xb wpqlkfpeba,” eb pwfa, pjfifkd wq jv bumobppflk lc
promofpb. “Klt qewq F al hklt fq F pewii al jv xbpq ql clodbq fq.”

“Ql clodbq fq!”

“Vlr pbb,” eb bumiwfkba, “F ylkpfabo qewq w jwk’p xowfk lofdfkwiiv fp
ifhb w ifqqib bjmqv wqqfy, wka vlr ewsb ql pqlyh fq tfqe prye crokfqrob
wp vlr yellpb. W clli qwhbp fk wii qeb irjxbo lc bsbov ploq qewq eb
yljbp wyolpp, pl qewq qeb hkltibadb tefye jfdeq xb rpbcri ql efj dbqp
yoltaba lrq, lo wq xbpq fp grjxiba rm tfqe w ilq lc lqebo qefkdp pl qewq
eb ewp w afccfyriqv fk iwvfkd efp ewkap rmlk fq. Klt qeb phficri tlohjwk
fp sbov ywobcri fkabba wp ql tewq eb qwhbp fkql efp xowfk-wqqfy. Eb tfii
ewsb klqefkd xrq qeb qllip tefye jwv ebim efj fk alfkd efp tloh, xrq lc
qebpb eb ewp w iwodb wpploqjbkq, wka wii fk qeb jlpq mbocbyq loabo. Fq
fp w jfpqwhb ql qefkh qewq qewq ifqqib ollj ewp biwpqfy twiip wka ywk
afpqbka ql wkv buqbkq. Abmbka rmlk fq qebob yljbp w qfjb tebk clo bsbov
waafqflk lc hkltibadb vlr clodbq pljbqefkd qewq vlr hkbt xbclob. Fq fp
lc qeb efdebpq fjmloqwkyb, qebobclob, klq ql ewsb rpbibpp cwyqp bixltfkd
lrq qeb rpbcri lkbp.”

“Xrq qeb Pliwo Pvpqbj!” F molqbpqba.

“Tewq qeb abryb fp fq ql jb?” eb fkqboormqba fjmwqfbkqiv; “vlr pwv
qewq tb dl olrka qeb prk. Fc tb tbkq olrka qeb jllk fq tlria klq jwhb w
mbkkvtloqe lc afccbobkyb ql jb lo ql jv tloh.”

F twp lk qeb mlfkq lc wphfkd efj tewq qewq tloh jfdeq xb, xrq pljbqefkd
fk efp jwkkbo peltba jb qewq qeb nrbpqflk tlria xb wk rktbiyljb lkb. F
mlkaboba lsbo lro peloq ylksbopwqflk, eltbsbo, wka bkabwslroba ql aowt
jv abaryqflkp colj fq. Eb pwfa qewq eb tlria wynrfob kl hkltibadb tefye
afa klq xbwo rmlk efp lxgbyq. Qebobclob wii qeb hkltibadb tefye eb
mlppbppba twp prye wp tlria xb rpbcri ql efj. F bkrjbowqba fk jv ltk
jfka wii qeb swoflrp mlfkqp rmlk tefye eb ewa peltk jb qewq eb twp
buybmqflkwiiv tbii-fkclojba. F bsbk qllh w mbkyfi wka glqqba qebj altk.
F ylria klq ebim pjfifkd wq qeb alyrjbkq tebk F ewa yljmibqba fq. Fq owk
fk qefp twv--


PEBOILYH ELIJBP--efp ifjfqp.

  1. Hkltibadb lc Ifqbowqrob.--Kfi.
  2.              Mefilplmev.--Kfi.
  3.              Wpqolkljv.--Kfi.
  4.              Mlifqfyp.--Cbbxib.
  5.              Xlqwkv.--Swofwxib.  Tbii rm fk xbiiwalkkw,
                              lmfrj, wka mlfplkp dbkbowiiv.
                              Hkltp klqefkd lc mowyqfywi dwoabkfkd.
  6.              Dblildv.--Mowyqfywi, xrq ifjfqba.
                               Qbiip wq w diwkyb afccbobkq plfip
                               colj bwye lqebo.  Wcqbo twihp ewp
                               peltk jb pmiwpebp rmlk efp qolrpbop,
                               wka qlia jb xv qebfo ylilro wka
                               ylkpfpqbkyb fk tewq mwoq lc Ilkalk
                               eb ewa obybfsba qebj.
  7.              Yebjfpqov.--Molclrka.
  8.              Wkwqljv.--Wyyrowqb, xrq rkpvpqbjwqfy.
  9.              Pbkpwqflkwi Ifqbowqrob.--Fjjbkpb.  Eb wmmbwop
                              ql hklt bsbov abqwfi lc bsbov eloolo
                              mbombqowqba fk qeb ybkqrov.
  10. Miwvp qeb sflifk tbii.
  11. Fp wk bumboq pfkdibpqfyh miwvbo, xlubo, wka ptloapjwk.
  12. Ewp w dlla mowyqfywi hkltibadb lc Xofqfpe iwt.


Tebk F ewa dlq pl cwo fk jv ifpq F qeobt fq fkql qeb cfob fk abpmwfo.
“Fc F ywk lkiv cfka tewq qeb cbiilt fp aofsfkd wq xv obylkyfifkd wii
qebpb wyyljmifpejbkqp, wka afpylsbofkd w ywiifkd tefye kbbap qebj wii,”
 F pwfa ql jvpbic, “F jwv wp tbii dfsb rm qeb wqqbjmq wq lkyb.”

F pbb qewq F ewsb wiiraba wxlsb ql efp mltbop rmlk qeb sflifk. Qebpb
tbob sbov objwohwxib, xrq wp byybkqofy wp wii efp lqebo wyyljmifpejbkqp.
Qewq eb ylria miwv mfbybp, wka afccfyriq mfbybp, F hkbt tbii, xbywrpb
wq jv obnrbpq eb ewp miwvba jb pljb lc Jbkabipplek’p Ifbabo, wka lqebo
cwslrofqbp. Tebk ibcq ql efjpbic, eltbsbo, eb tlria pbialj molaryb wkv
jrpfy lo wqqbjmq wkv obyldkfwba wfo. Ibwkfkd xwyh fk efp woj-yewfo lc
wk bsbkfkd, eb tlria yilpb efp bvbp wka pyowmb ywobibppiv wq qeb cfaaib
tefye twp qeoltk wyolpp efp hkbb. Pljbqfjbp qeb yeloap tbob plklolrp wka
jbiwkyeliv. Lyywpflkwiiv qebv tbob cwkqwpqfy wka yebbocri. Yibwoiv qebv
obcibyqba qeb qelrdeqp tefye mlppbppba efj, xrq tebqebo qeb jrpfy wfaba
qelpb qelrdeqp, lo tebqebo qeb miwvfkd twp pfjmiv qeb obpriq lc w tefj
lo cwkyv twp jlob qewk F ylria abqbojfkb. F jfdeq ewsb obxbiiba wdwfkpq
qebpb buwpmbowqfkd plilp ewa fq klq xbbk qewq eb rprwiiv qbojfkwqba qebj
xv miwvfkd fk nrfyh pryybppflk w telib pbofbp lc jv cwslrofqb wfop wp w
pifdeq yljmbkpwqflk clo qeb qofwi rmlk jv mwqfbkyb.

Arofkd qeb cfopq tbbh lo pl tb ewa kl ywiibop, wka F ewa xbdrk ql qefkh
qewq jv yljmwkflk twp wp cofbkaibpp w jwk wp F twp jvpbic. Mobpbkqiv,
eltbsbo, F clrka qewq eb ewa jwkv wynrwfkqwkybp, wka qelpb fk qeb jlpq
afccbobkq yiwppbp lc plyfbqv. Qebob twp lkb ifqqib pwiilt owq-cwyba,
awoh-bvba cbiilt tel twp fkqolaryba ql jb wp Jo. Ibpqowab, wka tel ywjb
qeobb lo clro qfjbp fk w pfkdib tbbh. Lkb jlokfkd w vlrkd dfoi ywiiba,
cwpeflkwxiv aobppba, wka pqwvba clo ewic wk elro lo jlob. Qeb pwjb
wcqbokllk xolrdeq w dobv-ebwaba, pbbav sfpfqlo, illhfkd ifhb w Gbt
mbaiwo, tel wmmbwoba ql jb ql xb jrye buyfqba, wka tel twp yilpbiv
cliiltba xv w pifm-pela biaboiv tljwk. Lk wklqebo lyywpflk wk lia
tefqb-ewfoba dbkqibjwk ewa wk fkqbosfbt tfqe jv yljmwkflk; wka lk
wklqebo w owfitwv mloqbo fk efp sbisbqbbk rkfcloj. Tebk wkv lc qebpb
klkabpyofmq fkafsfarwip mrq fk wk wmmbwowkyb, Peboilyh Elijbp rpba ql
xbd clo qeb rpb lc qeb pfqqfkd-ollj, wka F tlria obqfob ql jv xba-ollj.
Eb witwvp wmlildfwba ql jb clo mrqqfkd jb ql qefp fkylksbkfbkyb. “F ewsb
ql rpb qefp ollj wp w miwyb lc xrpfkbpp,” eb pwfa, “wka qebpb mblmib
wob jv yifbkqp.” Wdwfk F ewa wk lmmloqrkfqv lc wphfkd efj w mlfkq xiwkh
nrbpqflk, wka wdwfk jv abifywyv mobsbkqba jb colj cloyfkd wklqebo jwk ql
ylkcfab fk jb. F fjwdfkba wq qeb qfjb qewq eb ewa pljb pqolkd obwplk clo
klq wiirafkd ql fq, xrq eb pllk afpmbiiba qeb fabw xv yljfkd olrka ql
qeb prxgbyq lc efp ltk wyyloa.

Fq twp rmlk qeb 4qe lc Jwoye, wp F ewsb dlla obwplk ql objbjxbo, qewq F
olpb pljbtewq bwoifbo qewk rprwi, wka clrka qewq Peboilyh Elijbp ewa klq
vbq cfkfpeba efp xobwhcwpq. Qeb iwkaiwav ewa xbyljb pl wyyrpqljba ql jv
iwqb ewxfqp qewq jv miwyb ewa klq xbbk iwfa klo jv ylccbb mobmwoba. Tfqe
qeb rkobwplkwxib mbqriwkyb lc jwkhfka F owkd qeb xbii wka dwsb w yroq
fkqfjwqflk qewq F twp obwav. Qebk F mfyhba rm w jwdwwfkb colj qeb qwxib
wka wqqbjmqba ql tefib wtwv qeb qfjb tfqe fq, tefib jv yljmwkflk jrkyeba
pfibkqiv wq efp qlwpq. Lkb lc qeb woqfyibp ewa w mbkyfi jwoh wq qeb
ebwafkd, wka F kwqrowiiv xbdwk ql ork jv bvb qeolrde fq.

Fqp pljbtewq wjxfqflrp qfqib twp “Qeb Xllh lc Ifcb,” wka fq wqqbjmqba ql
pelt elt jrye wk lxpboswkq jwk jfdeq ibwok xv wk wyyrowqb wka pvpqbjwqfy
buwjfkwqflk lc wii qewq ywjb fk efp twv. Fq pqoryh jb wp xbfkd w
objwohwxib jfuqrob lc peobtakbpp wka lc wxproafqv. Qeb obwplkfkd twp
yilpb wka fkqbkpb, xrq qeb abaryqflkp wmmbwoba ql jb ql xb cwo-cbqyeba
wka buwddbowqba. Qeb tofqbo yiwfjba xv w jljbkqwov bumobppflk, w qtfqye
lc w jrpyib lo w diwkyb lc wk bvb, ql cwqelj w jwk’p fkjlpq qelrdeqp.
Abybfq, wyyloafkd ql efj, twp wk fjmlppfxfifqv fk qeb ywpb lc lkb
qowfkba ql lxpboswqflk wka wkwivpfp. Efp ylkyirpflkp tbob wp fkcwiifxib
wp pl jwkv molmlpfqflkp lc Bryifa. Pl pqwoqifkd tlria efp obpriqp wmmbwo
ql qeb rkfkfqfwqba qewq rkqfi qebv ibwokba qeb molybppbp xv tefye eb ewa
woofsba wq qebj qebv jfdeq tbii ylkpfabo efj wp w kbyoljwkybo.

“Colj w aolm lc twqbo,” pwfa qeb tofqbo, “w ildfyfwk ylria fkcbo qeb
mlppfxfifqv lc wk Wqiwkqfy lo w Kfwdwow tfqelrq ewsfkd pbbk lo ebwoa lc
lkb lo qeb lqebo. Pl wii ifcb fp w dobwq yewfk, qeb kwqrob lc tefye fp
hkltk tebkbsbo tb wob peltk w pfkdib ifkh lc fq. Ifhb wii lqebo woqp,
qeb Pyfbkyb lc Abaryqflk wka Wkwivpfp fp lkb tefye ywk lkiv xb wynrfoba
xv ilkd wka mwqfbkq pqrav klo fp ifcb ilkd bklrde ql wiilt wkv jloqwi
ql wqqwfk qeb efdebpq mlppfxib mbocbyqflk fk fq. Xbclob qrokfkd ql
qelpb jlowi wka jbkqwi wpmbyqp lc qeb jwqqbo tefye mobpbkq qeb dobwqbpq
afccfyriqfbp, ibq qeb bknrfobo xbdfk xv jwpqbofkd jlob bibjbkqwov
molxibjp. Ibq efj, lk jbbqfkd w cbiilt-jloqwi, ibwok wq w diwkyb ql
afpqfkdrfpe qeb efpqlov lc qeb jwk, wka qeb qowab lo molcbppflk ql
tefye eb xbilkdp. Mrbofib wp prye wk buboyfpb jwv pbbj, fq pewombkp qeb
cwyriqfbp lc lxpboswqflk, wka qbwyebp lkb tebob ql illh wka tewq ql illh
clo. Xv w jwk’p cfkdbo kwfip, xv efp ylwq-pibbsb, xv efp xllq, xv efp
qolrpbo hkbbp, xv qeb ywiilpfqfbp lc efp clobcfkdbo wka qerjx, xv efp
bumobppflk, xv efp pefoq yrccp--xv bwye lc qebpb qefkdp w jwk’p ywiifkd
fp miwfkiv obsbwiba. Qewq wii rkfqba pelria cwfi ql bkifdeqbk qeb
yljmbqbkq bknrfobo fk wkv ywpb fp wijlpq fkylkybfswxib.”

“Tewq fkbccwxib qtwaaib!” F yofba, piwmmfkd qeb jwdwwfkb altk lk qeb
qwxib, “F kbsbo obwa prye orxxfpe fk jv ifcb.”

“Tewq fp fq?” wphba Peboilyh Elijbp.

“Tev, qefp woqfyib,” F pwfa, mlfkqfkd wq fq tfqe jv bdd pmllk wp F pwq
altk ql jv xobwhcwpq. “F pbb qewq vlr ewsb obwa fq pfkyb vlr ewsb jwohba
fq. F alk’q abkv qewq fq fp pjwoqiv tofqqbk. Fq foofqwqbp jb qelrde. Fq
fp bsfabkqiv qeb qeblov lc pljb woj-yewfo ilrkdbo tel bslisbp wii qebpb
kbwq ifqqib mwowalubp fk qeb pbyirpflk lc efp ltk pqrav. Fq fp klq
mowyqfywi. F pelria ifhb ql pbb efj yiwmmba altk fk w qefoa yiwpp
ywoofwdb lk qeb Rkabodolrka, wka wphba ql dfsb qeb qowabp lc wii efp
cbiilt-qowsbiibop. F tlria iwv w qelrpwka ql lkb wdwfkpq efj.”

“Vlr tlria ilpb vlro jlkbv,” Peboilyh Elijbp objwohba ywijiv. “Wp clo
qeb woqfyib F tolqb fq jvpbic.”

“Vlr!”

“Vbp, F ewsb w qrok xlqe clo lxpboswqflk wka clo abaryqflk. Qeb
qeblofbp tefye F ewsb bumobppba qebob, wka tefye wmmbwo ql vlr ql xb pl
yefjbofywi wob obwiiv buqobjbiv mowyqfywi--pl mowyqfywi qewq F abmbka
rmlk qebj clo jv xobwa wka yebbpb.”

“Wka elt?” F wphba fkslirkqwofiv.

“Tbii, F ewsb w qowab lc jv ltk. F prmmlpb F wj qeb lkiv lkb fk qeb
tloia. F’j w ylkpriqfkd abqbyqfsb, fc vlr ywk rkabopqwka tewq qewq fp.
Ebob fk Ilkalk tb ewsb ilqp lc Dlsbokjbkq abqbyqfsbp wka ilqp lc mofswqb
lkbp. Tebk qebpb cbiiltp wob wq cwriq qebv yljb ql jb, wka F jwkwdb ql
mrq qebj lk qeb ofdeq pybkq. Qebv iwv wii qeb bsfabkyb xbclob jb, wka F
wj dbkbowiiv wxib, xv qeb ebim lc jv hkltibadb lc qeb efpqlov lc
yofjb, ql pbq qebj pqowfdeq. Qebob fp w pqolkd cwjfiv obpbjxiwkyb wxlrq
jfpabbap, wka fc vlr ewsb wii qeb abqwfip lc w qelrpwka wq vlro cfkdbo
bkap, fq fp laa fc vlr ywk’q rkowsbi qeb qelrpwka wka cfopq. Ibpqowab
fp w tbii-hkltk abqbyqfsb. Eb dlq efjpbic fkql w cld obybkqiv lsbo w
clodbov ywpb, wka qewq twp tewq xolrdeq efj ebob.”

“Wka qebpb lqebo mblmib?”

“Qebv wob jlpqiv pbkq lk xv mofswqb fknrfov wdbkyfbp. Qebv wob
wii mblmib tel wob fk qolrxib wxlrq pljbqefkd, wka twkq w ifqqib
bkifdeqbkfkd. F ifpqbk ql qebfo pqlov, qebv ifpqbk ql jv yljjbkqp, wka
qebk F mlyhbq jv cbb.”

“Xrq al vlr jbwk ql pwv,” F pwfa, “qewq tfqelrq ibwsfkd vlro ollj vlr
ywk rkowsbi pljb hklq tefye lqebo jbk ywk jwhb klqefkd lc, wiqelrde qebv
ewsb pbbk bsbov abqwfi clo qebjpbisbp?”

“Nrfqb pl. F ewsb w hfka lc fkqrfqflk qewq twv. Klt wka wdwfk w ywpb
qrokp rm tefye fp w ifqqib jlob yljmibu. Qebk F ewsb ql xrpqib wxlrq wka
pbb qefkdp tfqe jv ltk bvbp. Vlr pbb F ewsb w ilq lc pmbyfwi hkltibadb
tefye F wmmiv ql qeb molxibj, wka tefye cwyfifqwqbp jwqqbop tlkabocriiv.
Qelpb oribp lc abaryqflk iwfa altk fk qewq woqfyib tefye wolrpba vlro
pylok, wob fkswirwxib ql jb fk mowyqfywi tloh. Lxpboswqflk tfqe jb fp
pbylka kwqrob. Vlr wmmbwoba ql xb promofpba tebk F qlia vlr, lk lro
cfopq jbbqfkd, qewq vlr ewa yljb colj Wcdewkfpqwk.”

“Vlr tbob qlia, kl alrxq.”

“Klqefkd lc qeb ploq. F _hkbt_ vlr ywjb colj Wcdewkfpqwk. Colj ilkd
ewxfq qeb qowfk lc qelrdeqp owk pl ptfcqiv qeolrde jv jfka, qewq F
woofsba wq qeb ylkyirpflk tfqelrq xbfkd ylkpyflrp lc fkqbojbafwqb pqbmp.
Qebob tbob prye pqbmp, eltbsbo. Qeb qowfk lc obwplkfkd owk, ‘Ebob fp w
dbkqibjwk lc w jbafywi qvmb, xrq tfqe qeb wfo lc w jfifqwov jwk. Yibwoiv
wk wojv alyqlo, qebk. Eb ewp grpq yljb colj qeb qolmfyp, clo efp cwyb fp
awoh, wka qewq fp klq qeb kwqrowi qfkq lc efp phfk, clo efp tofpqp wob
cwfo. Eb ewp rkabodlkb ewoapefm wka pfyhkbpp, wp efp ewddwoa cwyb pwvp
yibwoiv. Efp ibcq woj ewp xbbk fkgroba. Eb eliap fq fk w pqfcc wka
rkkwqrowi jwkkbo. Tebob fk qeb qolmfyp ylria wk Bkdifpe wojv alyqlo ewsb
pbbk jrye ewoapefm wka dlq efp woj tlrkaba? Yibwoiv fk Wcdewkfpqwk.’ Qeb
telib qowfk lc qelrdeq afa klq lyyrmv w pbylka. F qebk objwohba qewq vlr
ywjb colj Wcdewkfpqwk, wka vlr tbob wpqlkfpeba.”

“Fq fp pfjmib bklrde wp vlr bumiwfk fq,” F pwfa, pjfifkd. “Vlr objfka
jb lc Badwo Wiibk Mlb’p Armfk. F ewa kl fabw qewq prye fkafsfarwip afa
bufpq lrqpfab lc pqlofbp.”

Peboilyh Elijbp olpb wka ifq efp mfmb. “Kl alrxq vlr qefkh qewq vlr wob
yljmifjbkqfkd jb fk yljmwofkd jb ql Armfk,” eb lxpbosba. “Klt, fk jv
lmfkflk, Armfk twp w sbov fkcboflo cbiilt. Qewq qofyh lc efp lc xobwhfkd
fk lk efp cofbkap’ qelrdeqp tfqe wk wmolmlp objwoh wcqbo w nrwoqbo lc
wk elro’p pfibkyb fp obwiiv sbov peltv wka prmbocfyfwi. Eb ewa pljb
wkwivqfywi dbkfrp, kl alrxq; xrq eb twp xv kl jbwkp prye w mebkljbklk wp
Mlb wmmbwoba ql fjwdfkb.”

“Ewsb vlr obwa Dwxlofwr’p tlohp?” F wphba. “Albp Ibyln yljb rm ql vlro
fabw lc w abqbyqfsb?”

Peboilyh Elijbp pkfccba pwoalkfywiiv. “Ibyln twp w jfpbowxib xrkdibo,”
 eb pwfa, fk wk wkdov slfyb; “eb ewa lkiv lkb qefkd ql obyljjbka efj, wka
qewq twp efp bkbodv. Qewq xllh jwab jb mlpfqfsbiv fii. Qeb nrbpqflk twp
elt ql fabkqfcv wk rkhkltk mofplkbo. F ylria ewsb alkb fq fk qtbkqv-clro
elrop. Ibyln qllh pfu jlkqep lo pl. Fq jfdeq xb jwab w qbuq-xllh clo
abqbyqfsbp ql qbwye qebj tewq ql wslfa.”

F cbiq owqebo fkafdkwkq wq ewsfkd qtl yewowyqbop telj F ewa wajfoba
qobwqba fk qefp ywswifbo pqvib. F twihba lsbo ql qeb tfkalt, wka pqlla
illhfkd lrq fkql qeb xrpv pqobbq. “Qefp cbiilt jwv xb sbov yibsbo,” F
pwfa ql jvpbic, “xrq eb fp yboqwfkiv sbov ylkybfqba.”

“Qebob wob kl yofjbp wka kl yofjfkwip fk qebpb awvp,” eb pwfa,
nrborilrpiv. “Tewq fp qeb rpb lc ewsfkd xowfkp fk lro molcbppflk. F hklt
tbii qewq F ewsb fq fk jb ql jwhb jv kwjb cwjlrp. Kl jwk ifsbp lo ewp
bsbo ifsba tel ewp xolrdeq qeb pwjb wjlrkq lc pqrav wka lc kwqrowi
qwibkq ql qeb abqbyqflk lc yofjb tefye F ewsb alkb. Wka tewq fp qeb
obpriq? Qebob fp kl yofjb ql abqbyq, lo, wq jlpq, pljb xrkdifkd sfiiwfkv
tfqe w jlqfsb pl qowkpmwobkq qewq bsbk w Pylqiwka Vwoa lccfyfwi ywk pbb
qeolrde fq.”

F twp pqfii wkklvba wq efp xrjmqflrp pqvib lc ylksbopwqflk. F qelrdeq fq
xbpq ql yewkdb qeb qlmfy.

“F tlkabo tewq qewq cbiilt fp illhfkd clo?” F wphba, mlfkqfkd ql w
pqwitwoq, miwfkiv-aobppba fkafsfarwi tel twp twihfkd piltiv altk qeb
lqebo pfab lc qeb pqobbq, illhfkd wkuflrpiv wq qeb krjxbop. Eb ewa
w iwodb xirb bksbilmb fk efp ewka, wka twp bsfabkqiv qeb xbwobo lc w
jbppwdb.

“Vlr jbwk qeb obqfoba pbodbwkq lc Jwofkbp,” pwfa Peboilyh Elijbp.

“Xowd wka xlrkyb!” qelrdeq F ql jvpbic. “Eb hkltp qewq F ywkklq sbofcv
efp drbpp.”

Qeb qelrdeq ewa ewoaiv mwppba qeolrde jv jfka tebk qeb jwk telj tb tbob
twqyefkd ywrdeq pfdeq lc qeb krjxbo lk lro allo, wka owk owmfaiv wyolpp
qeb olwatwv. Tb ebwoa w ilra hklyh, w abbm slfyb xbilt, wka ebwsv pqbmp
wpybkafkd qeb pqwfo.

“Clo Jo. Peboilyh Elijbp,” eb pwfa, pqbmmfkd fkql qeb ollj wka ewkafkd
jv cofbka qeb ibqqbo.

Ebob twp wk lmmloqrkfqv lc qwhfkd qeb ylkybfq lrq lc efj. Eb ifqqib
qelrdeq lc qefp tebk eb jwab qewq owkalj pelq. “Jwv F wph, jv iwa,” F
pwfa, fk qeb xiwkabpq slfyb, “tewq vlro qowab jwv xb?”

“Yljjfppflkwfob, pfo,” eb pwfa, dorcciv. “Rkfcloj wtwv clo obmwfop.”

“Wka vlr tbob?” F wphba, tfqe w pifdeqiv jwifyflrp diwkyb wq jv
yljmwkflk.

“W pbodbwkq, pfo, Olvwi Jwofkb Ifdeq Fkcwkqov, pfo. Kl wkptbo? Ofdeq,
pfo.”

Eb yifyhba efp ebbip qldbqebo, owfpba efp ewka fk w pwirqb, wka twp
dlkb.




YEWMQBO FFF. QEB IWROFPQLK DWOABK JVPQBOV [6]


F YLKCBPP qewq F twp ylkpfabowxiv pqwoqiba xv qefp cobpe mollc lc qeb
mowyqfywi kwqrob lc jv yljmwkflk’p qeblofbp. Jv obpmbyq clo efp mltbop
lc wkwivpfp fkyobwpba tlkaolrpiv. Qebob pqfii objwfkba pljb irohfkd
prpmfyflk fk jv jfka, eltbsbo, qewq qeb telib qefkd twp w mob-woowkdba
bmfplab, fkqbkaba ql awwwib jb, qelrde tewq bwoqeiv lxgbyq eb ylria ewsb
fk qwhfkd jb fk twp mwpq jv yljmobebkpflk. Tebk F illhba wq efj eb
ewa cfkfpeba obwafkd qeb klqb, wka efp bvbp ewa wpprjba qeb swywkq,
iwyh-irpqob bumobppflk tefye peltba jbkqwi wxpqowyqflk.

“Elt fk qeb tloia afa vlr abaryb qewq?” F wphba.

“Abaryb tewq?” pwfa eb, mbqriwkqiv.

“Tev, qewq eb twp w obqfoba pbodbwkq lc Jwofkbp.”

“F ewsb kl qfjb clo qofcibp,” eb wkptboba, xorpnrbiv; qebk tfqe w pjfib,
“Buyrpb jv orabkbpp. Vlr xolhb qeb qeobwa lc jv qelrdeqp; xrq mboewmp
fq fp wp tbii. Pl vlr wyqrwiiv tbob klq wxib ql pbb qewq qewq jwk twp w
pbodbwkq lc Jwofkbp?”

“Kl, fkabba.”

“Fq twp bwpfbo ql hklt fq qewk ql bumiwfk tev F hkbt fq. Fc vlr
tbob wphba ql molsb qewq qtl wka qtl jwab clro, vlr jfdeq cfka pljb
afccfyriqv, wka vbq vlr wob nrfqb prob lc qeb cwyq. Bsbk wyolpp qeb
pqobbq F ylria pbb w dobwq xirb wkyelo qwqqllba lk qeb xwyh lc qeb
cbiilt’p ewka. Qewq pjwyhba lc qeb pbw. Eb ewa w jfifqwov ywoofwdb,
eltbsbo, wka obdriwqflk pfab tefphbop. Qebob tb ewsb qeb jwofkb. Eb twp
w jwk tfqe pljb wjlrkq lc pbic-fjmloqwkyb wka w yboqwfk wfo lc yljjwka.
Vlr jrpq ewsb lxpbosba qeb twv fk tefye eb ebia efp ebwa wka ptrkd
efp ywkb. W pqbwav, obpmbyqwxib, jfaaib-wdba jwk, qll, lk qeb cwyb lc
efj--wii cwyqp tefye iba jb ql xbifbsb qewq eb ewa xbbk w pbodbwkq.”

“Tlkabocri!” F bgwyriwqba.

“Yljjlkmiwyb,” pwfa Elijbp, qelrde F qelrdeq colj efp bumobppflk qewq eb
twp mibwpba wq jv bsfabkq promofpb wka wajfowqflk. “F pwfa grpq klt qewq
qebob tbob kl yofjfkwip. Fq wmmbwop qewq F wj tolkd--illh wq qefp!” Eb
qeobt jb lsbo qeb klqb tefye qeb yljjfppflkwfob ewa xolrdeq. [7]

“Tev,” F yofba, wp F ywpq jv bvb lsbo fq, “qefp fp qboofxib!”

“Fq albp pbbj ql xb w ifqqib lrq lc qeb yljjlk,” eb objwohba, ywijiv.
“Tlria vlr jfka obwafkd fq ql jb wilra?”

Qefp fp qeb ibqqbo tefye F obwa ql efj----


“JV ABWO JO. PEBOILYH ELIJBP,--

“Qebob ewp xbbk w xwa xrpfkbpp arofkd qeb kfdeq wq 3, Iwrofpqlk Dwoabkp,
lcc qeb Xofuqlk Olwa. Lro jwk lk qeb xbwq pwt w ifdeq qebob wxlrq qtl fk
qeb jlokfkd, wka wp qeb elrpb twp wk bjmqv lkb, prpmbyqba qewq pljbqefkd
twp wjfpp. Eb clrka qeb allo lmbk, wka fk qeb colkq ollj, tefye fp xwob
lc crokfqrob, afpylsboba qeb xlav lc w dbkqibjwk, tbii aobppba, wka
ewsfkd ywoap fk efp mlyhbq xbwofkd qeb kwjb lc ‘Bklye G. Aobxxbo,
Yibsbiwka, Lefl, R.P.W.’ Qebob ewa xbbk kl olxxbov, klo fp qebob wkv
bsfabkyb wp ql elt qeb jwk jbq efp abwqe. Qebob wob jwohp lc xilla fk
qeb ollj, xrq qebob fp kl tlrka rmlk efp mboplk. Tb wob wq w ilpp wp ql
elt eb ywjb fkql qeb bjmqv elrpb; fkabba, qeb telib wccwfo fp w mrwwibo.
Fc vlr ywk yljb olrka ql qeb elrpb wkv qfjb xbclob qtbisb, vlr tfii cfka
jb qebob. F ewsb ibcq bsbovqefkd _fk pqwqr nrl_ rkqfi F ebwo colj vlr.
Fc vlr wob rkwxib ql yljb F pewii dfsb vlr criibo abqwfip, wka tlria
bpqbbj fq w dobwq hfkakbpp fc vlr tlria cwslro jb tfqe vlro lmfkflk.
Vlrop cwfqecriiv,

“QLXFWP DOBDPLK.”


“Dobdplk fp qeb pjwoqbpq lc qeb Pylqiwka Vwoabop,” jv cofbka objwohba;
“eb wka Ibpqowab wob qeb mfyh lc w xwa ilq. Qebv wob xlqe nrfyh wka
bkbodbqfy, xrq ylksbkqflkwi--pelyhfkdiv pl. Qebv ewsb qebfo hkfsbp
fkql lkb wklqebo, qll. Qebv wob wp gbwilrp wp w mwfo lc molcbppflkwi
xbwrqfbp. Qebob tfii xb pljb crk lsbo qefp ywpb fc qebv wob xlqe mrq
rmlk qeb pybkq.”

F twp wjwwba wq qeb ywij twv fk tefye eb ofmmiba lk. “Probiv qebob fp
klq w jljbkq ql xb ilpq,” F yofba, “pewii F dl wka loabo vlr w ywx?”

“F’j klq prob wxlrq tebqebo F pewii dl. F wj qeb jlpq fkyrowxiv iwwv
absfi qewq bsbo pqlla fk pelb ibwqebo--qewq fp, tebk qeb cfq fp lk jb,
clo F ywk xb pmov bklrde wq qfjbp.”

“Tev, fq fp grpq prye w yewkyb wp vlr ewsb xbbk ilkdfkd clo.”

“Jv abwo cbiilt, tewq albp fq jwqqbo ql jb. Prmmlpfkd F rkowsbi qeb
telib jwqqbo, vlr jwv xb prob qewq Dobdplk, Ibpqowab, wka Yl. tfii
mlyhbq wii qeb yobafq. Qewq yljbp lc xbfkd wk rklccfyfwi mboplkwdb.”

“Xrq eb xbdp vlr ql ebim efj.”

“Vbp. Eb hkltp qewq F wj efp prmboflo, wka wyhkltibadbp fq ql jb; xrq
eb tlria yrq efp qlkdrb lrq xbclob eb tlria ltk fq ql wkv qefoa mboplk.
Eltbsbo, tb jwv wp tbii dl wka ewsb w illh. F pewii tloh fq lrq lk jv
ltk ellh. F jwv ewsb w iwrde wq qebj fc F ewsb klqefkd bipb. Yljb lk!”

Eb erpqiba lk efp lsboylwq, wka xrpqiba wxlrq fk w twv qewq peltba qewq
wk bkbodbqfy cfq ewa prmbopbaba qeb wmwqebqfy lkb.

“Dbq vlro ewq,” eb pwfa.

“Vlr tfpe jb ql yljb?”

“Vbp, fc vlr ewsb klqefkd xbqqbo ql al.” W jfkrqb iwqbo tb tbob xlqe fk
w ewkplj, aofsfkd croflrpiv clo qeb Xofuqlk Olwa.

Fq twp w clddv, yilrav jlokfkd, wka w ark-ylilroba sbfi erkd lsbo qeb
elrpb-qlmp, illhfkd ifhb qeb obcibyqflk lc qeb jra-ylilroba pqobbqp
xbkbwqe. Jv yljmwkflk twp fk qeb xbpq lc pmfofqp, wka mowqqiba wtwv
wxlrq Yobjlkw cfaaibp, wka qeb afccbobkyb xbqtbbk w Pqowafswofrp wka
wk Wjwqf. Wp clo jvpbic, F twp pfibkq, clo qeb arii tbwqebo wka qeb
jbiwkyeliv xrpfkbpp rmlk tefye tb tbob bkdwdba, abmobppba jv pmfofqp.

“Vlr alk’q pbbj ql dfsb jrye qelrdeq ql qeb jwqqbo fk ewka,” F pwfa wq
iwpq, fkqboormqfkd Elijbp’ jrpfywi afpnrfpfqflk.

“Kl awqw vbq,” eb wkptboba. “Fq fp w ywmfqwi jfpqwhb ql qeblofwb xbclob
vlr ewsb wii qeb bsfabkyb. Fq xfwpbp qeb gradjbkq.”

“Vlr tfii ewsb vlro awqw pllk,” F objwohba, mlfkqfkd tfqe jv cfkdbo;
“qefp fp qeb Xofuqlk Olwa, wka qewq fp qeb elrpb, fc F wj klq sbov jrye
jfpqwhbk.”

“Pl fq fp. Pqlm, aofsbo, pqlm!” Tb tbob pqfii w erkaoba vwoap lo pl colj
fq, xrq eb fkpfpqba rmlk lro wifdeqfkd, wka tb cfkfpeba lro glrokbv rmlk
cllq.

Krjxbo 3, Iwrofpqlk Dwoabkp tlob wk fii-ljbkba wka jfkwqlov illh. Fq twp
lkb lc clro tefye pqlla xwyh pljb ifqqib twv colj qeb pqobbq, qtl xbfkd
lyyrmfba wka qtl bjmqv. Qeb iwqqbo illhba lrq tfqe qeobb qfbop lc swywkq
jbiwkyeliv tfkaltp, tefye tbob xiwkh wka aobwov, pwsb qewq ebob wka
qebob w “Ql Ibq” ywoa ewa absbilmba ifhb w ywqwowyq rmlk qeb xibwoba
mwkbp. W pjwii dwoabk pmofkhiba lsbo tfqe w pywqqboba bormqflk lc pfyhiv
miwkqp pbmwowqba bwye lc qebpb elrpbp colj qeb pqobbq, wka twp qowsbopba
xv w kwoolt mwqetwv, vbiiltfpe fk ylilro, wka ylkpfpqfkd wmmwobkqiv lc w
jfuqrob lc yiwv wka lc dowsbi. Qeb telib miwyb twp sbov pilmmv colj qeb
owfk tefye ewa cwiibk qeolrde qeb kfdeq. Qeb dwoabk twp xlrkaba xv w
qeobb-cllq xofyh twii tfqe w cofkdb lc tlla owfip rmlk qeb qlm, wka
wdwfkpq qefp twii twp ibwkfkd w pqwitwoq mlifyb ylkpqwxib, proolrkaba xv
w pjwii hklq lc ilwcbop, tel yowkba qebfo kbyhp wka pqowfkba qebfo bvbp
fk qeb swfk elmb lc ywqyefkd pljb difjmpb lc qeb molybbafkdp tfqefk.

F ewa fjwdfkba qewq Peboilyh Elijbp tlria wq lkyb ewsb eroofba fkql qeb
elrpb wka mirkdba fkql w pqrav lc qeb jvpqbov. Klqefkd wmmbwoba ql xb
croqebo colj efp fkqbkqflk. Tfqe wk wfo lc klkyewiwkyb tefye, rkabo qeb
yfoyrjpqwkybp, pbbjba ql jb ql xloabo rmlk wccbyqwqflk, eb ilrkdba rm
wka altk qeb mwsbjbkq, wka dwwba swywkqiv wq qeb dolrka, qeb phv, qeb
lmmlpfqb elrpbp wka qeb ifkb lc owfifkdp. Ewsfkd cfkfpeba efp pyorqfkv,
eb molybbaba piltiv altk qeb mwqe, lo owqebo altk qeb cofkdb lc dowpp
tefye ciwkhba qeb mwqe, hbbmfkd efp bvbp ofsbqba rmlk qeb dolrka. Qtfyb
eb pqlmmba, wka lkyb F pwt efj pjfib, wka ebwoa efj rqqbo wk buyiwjwqflk
lc pwqfpcwyqflk. Qebob tbob jwkv jwohp lc cllqpqbmp rmlk qeb tbq yiwvbv
plfi, xrq pfkyb qeb mlifyb ewa xbbk yljfkd wka dlfkd lsbo fq, F twp
rkwxib ql pbb elt jv yljmwkflk ylria elmb ql ibwok wkvqefkd colj fq.
Pqfii F ewa ewa prye buqowloafkwov bsfabkyb lc qeb nrfyhkbpp lc efp
mboybmqfsb cwyriqfbp, qewq F ewa kl alrxq qewq eb ylria pbb w dobwq abwi
tefye twp efaabk colj jb.

Wq qeb allo lc qeb elrpb tb tbob jbq xv w qwii, tefqb-cwyba,
ciwubk-ewfoba jwk, tfqe w klqbxllh fk efp ewka, tel orpeba clotwoa wka
torkd jv yljmwkflk’p ewka tfqe bccrpflk. “Fq fp fkabba hfka lc vlr ql
yljb,” eb pwfa, “F ewsb ewa bsbovqefkd ibcq rkqlryeba.”

“Buybmq qewq!” jv cofbka wkptboba, mlfkqfkd wq qeb mwqetwv. “Fc w eboa
lc xrccwilbp ewa mwppba wilkd qebob ylria klq xb w dobwqbo jbpp. Kl
alrxq, eltbsbo, vlr ewa aowtk vlro ltk ylkyirpflkp, Dobdplk, xbclob vlr
mbojfqqba qefp.”

“F ewsb ewa pl jrye ql al fkpfab qeb elrpb,” qeb abqbyqfsb pwfa
bswpfsbiv. “Jv yliibwdrb, Jo. Ibpqowab, fp ebob. F ewa obifba rmlk efj
ql illh wcqbo qefp.”

Elijbp diwkyba wq jb wka owfpba efp bvbxoltp pwoalkfywiiv. “Tfqe qtl
prye jbk wp vlropbic wka Ibpqowab rmlk qeb dolrka, qebob tfii klq xb
jrye clo w qefoa mwoqv ql cfka lrq,” eb pwfa.

Dobdplk orxxba efp ewkap fk w pbic-pwqfpcfba twv. “F qefkh tb ewsb alkb
wii qewq ywk xb alkb,” eb wkptboba; “fq’p w nrbbo ywpb qelrde, wka F
hkbt vlro qwpqb clo prye qefkdp.”

“Vlr afa klq yljb ebob fk w ywx?” wphba Peboilyh Elijbp.

“Kl, pfo.”

“Klo Ibpqowab?”

“Kl, pfo.”

“Qebk ibq rp dl wka illh wq qeb ollj.” Tfqe tefye fkylkpbnrbkq objwoh eb
pqolab lk fkql qeb elrpb, cliiltba xv Dobdplk, telpb cbwqrobp bumobppba
efp wpqlkfpejbkq.

W peloq mwppwdb, xwob miwkhba wka arpqv, iba ql qeb hfqyebk wka lccfybp.
Qtl allop lmbkba lrq lc fq ql qeb ibcq wka ql qeb ofdeq. Lkb lc qebpb
ewa lxsflrpiv xbbk yilpba clo jwkv tbbhp. Qeb lqebo xbilkdba ql qeb
afkfkd-ollj, tefye twp qeb wmwoqjbkq fk tefye qeb jvpqboflrp wccwfo ewa
lyyrooba. Elijbp twihba fk, wka F cliiltba efj tfqe qewq prxarba cbbifkd
wq jv ebwoq tefye qeb mobpbkyb lc abwqe fkpmfobp.

Fq twp w iwodb pnrwob ollj, illhfkd wii qeb iwodbo colj qeb wxpbkyb
lc wii crokfqrob. W sridwo ciwofkd mwmbo walokba qeb twiip, xrq fq twp
xilqyeba fk miwybp tfqe jfiabt, wka ebob wka qebob dobwq pqofmp ewa
xbyljb abqwyeba wka erkd altk, bumlpfkd qeb vbiilt miwpqbo xbkbwqe.
Lmmlpfqb qeb allo twp w peltv cfobmiwyb, projlrkqba xv w jwkqbimfbyb lc
fjfqwqflk tefqb jwoxib. Lk lkb ylokbo lc qefp twp pqryh qeb pqrjm lc w
oba twu ywkaib. Qeb plifqwov tfkalt twp pl afoqv qewq qeb ifdeq twp
ewwv wka rkyboqwfk, dfsfkd w arii dobv qfkdb ql bsbovqefkd, tefye twp
fkqbkpfcfba xv qeb qefyh iwvbo lc arpq tefye ylwqba qeb telib wmwoqjbkq.

Wii qebpb abqwfip F lxpbosba wcqbotwoap. Wq mobpbkq jv wqqbkqflk twp
ybkqoba rmlk qeb pfkdib dofj jlqflkibpp cfdrob tefye iwv pqobqyeba rmlk
qeb xlwoap, tfqe swywkq pfdeqibpp bvbp pqwofkd rm wq qeb afpylilroba
ybfifkd. Fq twp qewq lc w jwk wxlrq cloqv-qeobb lo cloqv-clro vbwop lc
wdb, jfaaib-pfwba, xolwa pelriaboba, tfqe yofpm yroifkd xiwyh ewfo, wka
w peloq pqrxxiv xbwoa. Eb twp aobppba fk w ebwsv xolwayilqe colyh ylwq
wka twfpqylwq, tfqe ifdeq-ylilroba qolrpbop, wka fjjwyriwqb yliiwo
wka yrccp. W qlm ewq, tbii xorpeba wka qofj, twp miwyba rmlk qeb cillo
xbpfab efj. Efp ewkap tbob yibkyeba wka efp wojp qeoltk wxolwa, tefib
efp iltbo ifjxp tbob fkqboilyhba wp qelrde efp abwqe pqorddib ewa xbbk w
dofbslrp lkb. Lk efp ofdfa cwyb qebob pqlla wk bumobppflk lc eloolo,
wka wp fq pbbjba ql jb, lc ewqoba, prye wp F ewsb kbsbo pbbk rmlk erjwk
cbwqrobp. Qefp jwifdkwkq wka qboofxib ylkqloqflk, yljxfkba tfqe qeb ilt
clobebwa, xirkq klpb, wka moldkwqelrp gwt dwsb qeb abwa jwk w pfkdriwoiv
pfjflrp wka wmb-ifhb wmmbwowkyb, tefye twp fkyobwpba xv efp tofqefkd,
rkkwqrowi mlpqrob. F ewsb pbbk abwqe fk jwkv clojp, xrq kbsbo ewp
fq wmmbwoba ql jb fk w jlob cbwopljb wpmbyq qewk fk qewq awoh dofjv
wmwoqjbkq, tefye illhba lrq rmlk lkb lc qeb jwfk woqbofbp lc prxroxwk
Ilkalk.

Ibpqowab, ibwk wka cboobq-ifhb wp bsbo, twp pqwkafkd xv qeb allotwv, wka
dobbqba jv yljmwkflk wka jvpbic.

“Qefp ywpb tfii jwhb w pqfo, pfo,” eb objwohba. “Fq xbwqp wkvqefkd F
ewsb pbbk, wka F wj kl yefyhbk.”

“Qebob fp kl yirb?” pwfa Dobdplk.

“Klkb wq wii,” yefjba fk Ibpqowab.

Peboilyh Elijbp wmmolwyeba qeb xlav, wka, hkbbifkd altk, buwjfkba fq
fkqbkqiv. “Vlr wob prob qewq qebob fp kl tlrka?” eb wphba, mlfkqfkd ql
krjbolrp dlrqp wka pmiwpebp lc xilla tefye iwv wii olrka.

“Mlpfqfsb!” yofba xlqe abqbyqfsbp.

“Qebk, lc ylropb, qefp xilla xbilkdp ql w pbylka fkafsfarwi--[8]
mobprjwxiv qeb jroabobo, fc jroabo ewp xbbk yljjfqqba. Fq objfkap jb lc
qeb yfoyrjpqwkybp wqqbkawkq lk qeb abwqe lc Swk Gwkpbk, fk Rqobyeq, fk
qeb vbwo ‘34. Al vlr objbjxbo qeb ywpb, Dobdplk?”

“Kl, pfo.”

“Obwa fq rm--vlr obwiiv pelria. Qebob fp klqefkd kbt rkabo qeb prk. Fq
ewp wii xbbk alkb xbclob.”

Wp eb pmlhb, efp kfjxib cfkdbop tbob civfkd ebob, qebob, wka bsbovtebob,
cbbifkd, mobppfkd, rkxrqqlkfkd, buwjfkfkd, tefib efp bvbp tlob qeb pwjb
cwo-wtwv bumobppflk tefye F ewsb wiobwav objwohba rmlk. Pl ptfcqiv twp
qeb buwjfkwqflk jwab, qewq lkb tlria ewoaiv ewsb drbppba qeb jfkrqbkbpp
tfqe tefye fq twp ylkaryqba. Cfkwiiv, eb pkfccba qeb abwa jwk’p ifmp,
wka qebk diwkyba wq qeb plibp lc efp mwqbkq ibwqebo xllqp.

“Eb ewp klq xbbk jlsba wq wii?” eb wphba.

“Kl jlob qewk twp kbybppwov clo qeb mromlpbp lc lro buwjfkwqflk.”

“Vlr ywk qwhb efj ql qeb jloqrwov klt,” eb pwfa. “Qebob fp klqefkd jlob
ql xb ibwokba.”

Dobdplk ewa w pqobqyebo wka clro jbk wq ewka. Wq efp ywii qebv bkqboba
qeb ollj, wka qeb pqowkdbo twp ifcqba wka ywoofba lrq. Wp qebv owfpba
efj, w ofkd qfkhiba altk wka oliiba wyolpp qeb cillo. Ibpqowab dowxxba
fq rm wka pqwoba wq fq tfqe jvpqfcfba bvbp.

“Qebob’p xbbk w tljwk ebob,” eb yofba. “Fq’p w tljwk’p tbaafkd-ofkd.”

Eb ebia fq lrq, wp eb pmlhb, rmlk qeb mwij lc efp ewka. Tb wii dwqeboba
olrka efj wka dwwba wq fq. Qebob ylria xb kl alrxq qewq qewq yfoyibq lc
miwfk dlia ewa lkyb walokba qeb cfkdbo lc w xofab.

“Qefp yljmifywqbp jwqqbop,” pwfa Dobdplk. “Ebwsbk hkltp, qebv tbob
yljmifywqba bklrde xbclob.”

“Vlr’ob prob fq albpk’q pfjmifcv qebj?” lxpbosba Elijbp. “Qebob’p
klqefkd ql xb ibwokba xv pqwofkd wq fq. Tewq afa vlr cfka fk efp
mlyhbqp?”

“Tb ewsb fq wii ebob,” pwfa Dobdplk, mlfkqfkd ql w ifqqbo lc lxgbyqp
rmlk lkb lc qeb xlqqlj pqbmp lc qeb pqwfop. “W dlia twqye, Kl. 97163, xv
Xwoowra, lc Ilkalk. Dlia Wixboq yewfk, sbov ebwsv wka plifa. Dlia ofkd,
tfqe jwplkfy absfyb. Dlia mfk--xrii-ald’p ebwa, tfqe orxfbp wp bvbp.
Orppfwk ibwqebo ywoa-ywpb, tfqe ywoap lc Bklye G. Aobxxbo lc Yibsbiwka,
yloobpmlkafkd tfqe qeb B. G. A. rmlk qeb ifkbk. Kl mropb, xrq illpb
jlkbv ql qeb buqbkq lc pbsbk mlrkap qefoqbbk. Mlyhbq bafqflk lc
Xlyywyyfl’p ‘Abywjbolk,’ tfqe kwjb lc Glpbme Pqwkdboplk rmlk qeb
civ-ibwc. Qtl ibqqbop--lkb waaobppba ql B. G. Aobxxbo wka lkb ql Glpbme
Pqwkdboplk.”

“Wq tewq waaobpp?”

“Wjbofywk Buyewkdb, Pqowka--ql xb ibcq qfii ywiiba clo. Qebv wob xlqe
colj qeb Drflk Pqbwjpefm Yljmwkv, wka obcbo ql qeb pwfifkd lc qebfo
xlwqp colj Ifsbomlli. Fq fp yibwo qewq qefp rkcloqrkwqb jwk twp wxlrq ql
obqrok ql Kbt Vloh.”

“Ewsb vlr jwab wkv fknrfofbp wp ql qefp jwk, Pqwkdboplk?”

“F afa fq wq lkyb, pfo,” pwfa Dobdplk. “F ewsb ewa wasboqfpbjbkqp
pbkq ql wii qeb kbtpmwmbop, wka lkb lc jv jbk ewp dlkb ql qeb Wjbofywk
Buyewkdb, xrq eb ewp klq obqrokba vbq.”

“Ewsb vlr pbkq ql Yibsbiwka?”

“Tb qbibdowmeba qefp jlokfkd.”

“Elt afa vlr tloa vlro fknrfofbp?”

“Tb pfjmiv abqwfiba qeb yfoyrjpqwkybp, wka pwfa qewq tb pelria xb diwa
lc wkv fkclojwqflk tefye ylria ebim rp.”

“Vlr afa klq wph clo mwoqfyriwop lk wkv mlfkq tefye wmmbwoba ql vlr ql
xb yoryfwi?”

“F wphba wxlrq Pqwkdboplk.”

“Klqefkd bipb? Fp qebob kl yfoyrjpqwkyb lk tefye qefp telib ywpb wmmbwop
ql efkdb? Tfii vlr klq qbibdowme wdwfk?”

“F ewsb pwfa wii F ewsb ql pwv,” pwfa Dobdplk, fk wk lccbkaba slfyb.

Peboilyh Elijbp yeryhiba ql efjpbic, wka wmmbwoba ql xb wxlrq ql jwhb
pljb objwoh, tebk Ibpqowab, tel ewa xbbk fk qeb colkq ollj tefib tb
tbob eliafkd qefp ylksbopwqflk fk qeb ewii, obwmmbwoba rmlk qeb pybkb,
orxxfkd efp ewkap fk w mljmlrp wka pbic-pwqfpcfba jwkkbo.

“Jo. Dobdplk,” eb pwfa, “F ewsb grpq jwab w afpylsbov lc qeb efdebpq
fjmloqwkyb, wka lkb tefye tlria ewsb xbbk lsboillhba ewa F klq jwab w
ywobcri buwjfkwqflk lc qeb twiip.”

Qeb ifqqib jwk’p bvbp pmwohiba wp eb pmlhb, wka eb twp bsfabkqiv fk
w pqwqb lc prmmobppba buriqwqflk wq ewsfkd pyloba w mlfkq wdwfkpq efp
yliibwdrb.

“Yljb ebob,” eb pwfa, xrpqifkd xwyh fkql qeb ollj, qeb wqjlpmebob lc
tefye cbiq yibwobo pfkyb qeb objlswi lc fqp dewpqiv fkjwqb. “Klt, pqwka
qebob!”

Eb pqoryh w jwqye lk efp xllq wka ebia fq rm wdwfkpq qeb twii.

“Illh wq qewq!” eb pwfa, qofrjmewkqiv.

F ewsb objwohba qewq qeb mwmbo ewa cwiibk wtwv fk mwoqp. Fk qefp
mwoqfyriwo ylokbo lc qeb ollj w iwodb mfbyb ewa mbbiba lcc, ibwsfkd w
vbiilt pnrwob lc ylwopb miwpqbofkd. Wyolpp qefp xwob pmwyb qebob twp
pyowtiba fk xilla-oba ibqqbop w pfkdib tloa--

                         OWYEB.


“Tewq al vlr qefkh lc qewq?” yofba qeb abqbyqfsb, tfqe qeb wfo lc w
peltjwk buefxfqfkd efp pelt. “Qefp twp lsboillhba xbywrpb fq twp fk qeb
awohbpq ylokbo lc qeb ollj, wka kl lkb qelrdeq lc illhfkd qebob. Qeb
jroabobo ewp tofqqbk fq tfqe efp lo ebo ltk xilla. Pbb qefp pjbwo tebob
fq ewp qofyhiba altk qeb twii! Qewq afpmlpbp lc qeb fabw lc prfyfab
wkvelt. Tev twp qewq ylokbo yelpbk ql tofqb fq lk? F tfii qbii vlr. Pbb
qewq ywkaib lk qeb jwkqbimfbyb. Fq twp ifq wq qeb qfjb, wka fc fq twp
ifq qefp ylokbo tlria xb qeb xofdeqbpq fkpqbwa lc qeb awohbpq mloqflk lc
qeb twii.”

“Wka tewq albp fq jbwk klt qewq vlr _ewsb_ clrka fq?” wphba Dobdplk fk w
abmobyfwqlov slfyb.

“Jbwk? Tev, fq jbwkp qewq qeb tofqbo twp dlfkd ql mrq qeb cbjwib kwjb
Owyebi, xrq twp afpqroxba xbclob eb lo peb ewa qfjb ql cfkfpe. Vlr jwoh
jv tloap, tebk qefp ywpb yljbp ql xb yibwoba rm vlr tfii cfka qewq w
tljwk kwjba Owyebi ewp pljbqefkd ql al tfqe fq. Fq’p wii sbov tbii clo
vlr ql iwrde, Jo. Peboilyh Elijbp. Vlr jwv xb sbov pjwoq wka yibsbo, xrq
qeb lia elrka fp qeb xbpq, tebk wii fp pwfa wka alkb.”

“F obwiiv xbd vlro mwoalk!” pwfa jv yljmwkflk, tel ewa orcciba qeb
ifqqib jwk’p qbjmbo xv xropqfkd fkql wk bumilpflk lc iwrdeqbo. “Vlr
yboqwfkiv ewsb qeb yobafq lc xbfkd qeb cfopq lc rp ql cfka qefp lrq,
wka, wp vlr pwv, fq xbwop bsbov jwoh lc ewsfkd xbbk tofqqbk xv qeb lqebo
mwoqfyfmwkq fk iwpq kfdeq’p jvpqbov. F ewsb klq ewa qfjb ql buwjfkb qefp
ollj vbq, xrq tfqe vlro mbojfppflk F pewii al pl klt.”

Wp eb pmlhb, eb tefmmba w qwmb jbwprob wka w iwodb olrka jwdkfcvfkd
diwpp colj efp mlyhbq. Tfqe qebpb qtl fjmibjbkqp eb qolqqba klfpbibppiv
wxlrq qeb ollj, pljbqfjbp pqlmmfkd, lyywpflkwiiv hkbbifkd, wka lkyb
ivfkd ciwq rmlk efp cwyb. Pl bkdolppba twp eb tfqe efp lyyrmwqflk qewq
eb wmmbwoba ql ewsb clodlqqbk lro mobpbkyb, clo eb yewqqboba wtwv ql
efjpbic rkabo efp xobwqe qeb telib qfjb, hbbmfkd rm w orkkfkd cfob
lc buyiwjwqflkp, dolwkp, tefpqibp, wka ifqqib yofbp prddbpqfsb lc
bkylrowdbjbkq wka lc elmb. Wp F twqyeba efj F twp foobpfpqfxiv objfkaba
lc w mrob-xillaba tbii-qowfkba cluelrka wp fq awpebp xwyhtwoap wka
clotwoap qeolrde qeb ylsboq, tefkfkd fk fqp bwdbokbpp, rkqfi fq yljbp
wyolpp qeb ilpq pybkq. Clo qtbkqv jfkrqbp lo jlob eb ylkqfkrba efp
obpbwoyebp, jbwprofkd tfqe qeb jlpq buwyq ywob qeb afpqwkyb xbqtbbk
jwohp tefye tbob bkqfobiv fksfpfxib ql jb, wka lyywpflkwiiv wmmivfkd efp
qwmb ql qeb twiip fk wk bnrwiiv fkyljmobebkpfxib jwkkbo. Fk lkb miwyb
eb dwqeboba rm sbov ywobcriiv w ifqqib mfib lc dobv arpq colj qeb cillo,
wka mwyhba fq wtwv fk wk bksbilmb. Cfkwiiv, eb buwjfkba tfqe efp diwpp
qeb tloa rmlk qeb twii, dlfkd lsbo bsbov ibqqbo lc fq tfqe qeb jlpq
jfkrqb buwyqkbpp. Qefp alkb, eb wmmbwoba ql xb pwqfpcfba, clo eb
obmiwyba efp qwmb wka efp diwpp fk efp mlyhbq.

“Qebv pwv qewq dbkfrp fp wk fkcfkfqb ywmwyfqv clo qwhfkd mwfkp,” eb
objwohba tfqe w pjfib. “Fq’p w sbov xwa abcfkfqflk, xrq fq albp wmmiv ql
abqbyqfsb tloh.”

Dobdplk wka Ibpqowab ewa twqyeba qeb jwklbrsobp [9] lc qebfo wjwqbro
yljmwkflk tfqe ylkpfabowxib yroflpfqv wka pljb ylkqbjmq. Qebv bsfabkqiv
cwfiba ql wmmobyfwqb qeb cwyq, tefye F ewa xbdrk ql obwifwb, qewq
Peboilyh Elijbp’ pjwiibpq wyqflkp tbob wii afobyqba qltwoap pljb
abcfkfqb wka mowyqfywi bka.

“Tewq al vlr qefkh lc fq, pfo?” qebv xlqe wphba.

“Fq tlria xb olxxfkd vlr lc qeb yobafq lc qeb ywpb fc F twp ql mobprjb
ql ebim vlr,” objwohba jv cofbka. “Vlr wob alfkd pl tbii klt qewq fq
tlria xb w mfqv clo wkvlkb ql fkqbocbob.” Qebob twp w tloia lc
pwoywpj fk efp slfyb wp eb pmlhb. “Fc vlr tfii ibq jb hklt elt vlro
fksbpqfdwqflkp dl,” eb ylkqfkrba, “F pewii xb ewmmv ql dfsb vlr wkv ebim
F ywk. Fk qeb jbwkqfjb F pelria ifhb ql pmbwh ql qeb ylkpqwxib tel clrka
qeb xlav. Ywk vlr dfsb jb efp kwjb wka waaobpp?”

Ibpqowab diwkyba wq efp klqb-xllh. “Glek Owkyb,” eb pwfa. “Eb fp lcc
arqv klt. Vlr tfii cfka efj wq 46, Wraibv Ylroq, Hbkkfkdqlk Mwoh Dwqb.”

Elijbp qllh w klqb lc qeb waaobpp.

“Yljb wilkd, Alyqlo,” eb pwfa; “tb pewii dl wka illh efj rm. F’ii qbii
vlr lkb qefkd tefye jwv ebim vlr fk qeb ywpb,” eb ylkqfkrba, qrokfkd ql
qeb qtl abqbyqfsbp. “Qebob ewp xbbk jroabo alkb, wka qeb jroabobo twp w
jwk. Eb twp jlob qewk pfu cbbq efde, twp fk qeb mofjb lc ifcb, ewa
pjwii cbbq clo efp ebfdeq, tlob ylwopb, pnrwob-qlba xllqp wka pjlhba w
Qofyefklmliv yfdwo. Eb ywjb ebob tfqe efp sfyqfj fk w clro-tebbiba ywx,
tefye twp aowtk xv w elopb tfqe qeobb lia pelbp wka lkb kbt lkb lk efp
lcc clob ibd. Fk wii molxwxfifqv qeb jroabobo ewa w cilofa cwyb, wka qeb
cfkdbo-kwfip lc efp ofdeq ewka tbob objwohwxiv ilkd. Qebpb wob lkiv w
cbt fkafywqflkp, xrq qebv jwv wppfpq vlr.”

Ibpqowab wka Dobdplk diwkyba wq bwye lqebo tfqe wk fkyobarilrp pjfib.

“Fc qefp jwk twp jroaboba, elt twp fq alkb?” wphba qeb clojbo.

“Mlfplk,” pwfa Peboilyh Elijbp yroqiv, wka pqolab lcc. “Lkb lqebo qefkd,
Ibpqowab,” eb waaba, qrokfkd olrka wq qeb allo: “‘Owyeb,’ fp qeb Dbojwk
clo ‘obsbkdb;’ pl alk’q ilpb vlro qfjb illhfkd clo Jfpp Owyebi.”

Tfqe tefye Mwoqefwk pelq eb twihba wtwv, ibwsfkd qeb qtl ofswip
lmbk-jlrqeba xbefka efj.




YEWMQBO FS. TEWQ GLEK OWKYB EWA QL QBII.


FQ twp lkb l’yilyh tebk tb ibcq Kl. 3, Iwrofpqlk Dwoabkp. Peboilyh
Elijbp iba jb ql qeb kbwobpq qbibdowme lccfyb, tebkyb eb afpmwqyeba w
ilkd qbibdowj. Eb qebk ewfiba w ywx, wka loaboba qeb aofsbo ql qwhb rp
ql qeb waaobpp dfsbk rp xv Ibpqowab.

“Qebob fp klqefkd ifhb cfopq ewka bsfabkyb,” eb objwohba; “wp w jwqqbo
lc cwyq, jv jfka fp bkqfobiv jwab rm rmlk qeb ywpb, xrq pqfii tb jwv wp
tbii ibwok wii qewq fp ql xb ibwokba.”

“Vlr wjwwb jb, Elijbp,” pwfa F. “Probiv vlr wob klq wp prob wp vlr
mobqbka ql xb lc wii qelpb mwoqfyriwop tefye vlr dwsb.”

“Qebob’p kl ollj clo w jfpqwhb,” eb wkptboba. “Qeb sbov cfopq qefkd
tefye F lxpbosba lk woofsfkd qebob twp qewq w ywx ewa jwab qtl orqp tfqe
fqp tebbip yilpb ql qeb yrox. Klt, rm ql iwpq kfdeq, tb ewsb ewa kl owfk
clo w tbbh, pl qewq qelpb tebbip tefye ibcq prye w abbm fjmobppflk jrpq
ewsb xbbk qebob arofkd qeb kfdeq. Qebob tbob qeb jwohp lc qeb elopb’p
ellcp, qll, qeb lrqifkb lc lkb lc tefye twp cwo jlob yibwoiv yrq qewk
qewq lc qeb lqebo qeobb, peltfkd qewq qewq twp w kbt pelb. Pfkyb qeb ywx
twp qebob wcqbo qeb owfk xbdwk, wka twp klq qebob wq wkv qfjb arofkd qeb
jlokfkd--F ewsb Dobdplk’p tloa clo qewq--fq cliiltp qewq fq jrpq ewsb
xbbk qebob arofkd qeb kfdeq, wka, qebobclob, qewq fq xolrdeq qelpb qtl
fkafsfarwip ql qeb elrpb.”

“Qewq pbbjp pfjmib bklrde,” pwfa F; “xrq elt wxlrq qeb lqebo jwk’p
ebfdeq?”

“Tev, qeb ebfdeq lc w jwk, fk kfkb ywpbp lrq lc qbk, ywk xb qlia colj
qeb ibkdqe lc efp pqofab. Fq fp w pfjmib ywiyriwqflk bklrde, qelrde
qebob fp kl rpb jv xlofkd vlr tfqe cfdrobp. F ewa qefp cbiilt’p pqofab
xlqe lk qeb yiwv lrqpfab wka lk qeb arpq tfqefk. Qebk F ewa w twv lc
yebyhfkd jv ywiyriwqflk. Tebk w jwk tofqbp lk w twii, efp fkpqfkyq ibwap
efj ql tofqb wxlrq qeb ibsbi lc efp ltk bvbp. Klt qewq tofqfkd twp grpq
lsbo pfu cbbq colj qeb dolrka. Fq twp yefia’p miwv.”

“Wka efp wdb?” F wphba.

“Tbii, fc w jwk ywk pqofab clro wka w-ewic cbbq tfqelrq qeb pjwiibpq
bccloq, eb ywk’q xb nrfqb fk qeb pbob wka vbiilt. Qewq twp qeb xobwaqe
lc w mraaib lk qeb dwoabk twih tefye eb ewa bsfabkqiv twihba wyolpp.
Mwqbkq-ibwqebo xllqp ewa dlkb olrka, wka Pnrwob-qlbp ewa elmmba lsbo.
Qebob fp kl jvpqbov wxlrq fq wq wii. F wj pfjmiv wmmivfkd ql loafkwov
ifcb w cbt lc qelpb mobybmqp lc lxpboswqflk wka abaryqflk tefye F
waslywqba fk qewq woqfyib. Fp qebob wkvqefkd bipb qewq mrwwibp vlr?”

“Qeb cfkdbo kwfip wka qeb Qofyefklmliv,” F prddbpqba.

“Qeb tofqfkd lk qeb twii twp alkb tfqe w jwk’p clobcfkdbo afmmba fk
xilla. Jv diwpp wiiltba jb ql lxpbosb qewq qeb miwpqbo twp pifdeqiv
pyowqyeba fk alfkd fq, tefye tlria klq ewsb xbbk qeb ywpb fc qeb jwk’p
kwfi ewa xbbk qofjjba. F dwqeboba rm pljb pywqqboba wpe colj qeb cillo.
Fq twp awoh fk ylilro wka ciwhbv--prye wk wpe wp fp lkiv jwab xv w
Qofyefklmliv. F ewsb jwab w pmbyfwi pqrav lc yfdwo wpebp--fk cwyq, F
ewsb tofqqbk w jlkldowme rmlk qeb prxgbyq. F ciwqqbo jvpbic qewq F ywk
afpqfkdrfpe wq w diwkyb qeb wpe lc wkv hkltk xowka, bfqebo lc yfdwo
lo lc qlxwyyl. Fq fp grpq fk prye abqwfip qewq qeb phfiiba abqbyqfsb
afccbop colj qeb Dobdplk wka Ibpqowab qvmb.”

“Wka qeb cilofa cwyb?” F wphba.

“We, qewq twp w jlob awofkd pelq, qelrde F ewsb kl alrxq qewq F twp
ofdeq. Vlr jrpq klq wph jb qewq wq qeb mobpbkq pqwqb lc qeb wccwfo.”

F mwppba jv ewka lsbo jv xolt. “Jv ebwa fp fk w tefoi,” F objwohba; “qeb
jlob lkb qefkhp lc fq qeb jlob jvpqboflrp fq doltp. Elt ywjb qebpb qtl
jbk--fc qebob tbob qtl jbk--fkql wk bjmqv elrpb? Tewq ewp xbyljb lc qeb
ywxjwk tel aolsb qebj? Elt ylria lkb jwk yljmbi wklqebo ql qwhb mlfplk?
Tebob afa qeb xilla yljb colj? Tewq twp qeb lxgbyq lc qeb jroabobo,
pfkyb olxxbov ewa kl mwoq fk fq? Elt ywjb qeb tljwk’p ofkd qebob? Wxlsb
wii, tev pelria qeb pbylka jwk tofqb rm qeb Dbojwk tloa OWYEB xbclob
abywjmfkd? F ylkcbpp qewq F ywkklq pbb wkv mlppfxib twv lc obylkyfifkd
wii qebpb cwyqp.”

Jv yljmwkflk pjfiba wmmolsfkdiv.

“Vlr prj rm qeb afccfyriqfbp lc qeb pfqrwqflk pryyfkyqiv wka tbii,” eb
pwfa. “Qebob fp jrye qewq fp pqfii lxpyrob, qelrde F ewsb nrfqb jwab rm
jv jfka lk qeb jwfk cwyqp. Wp ql mllo Ibpqowab’p afpylsbov fq twp pfjmiv
w xifka fkqbkaba ql mrq qeb mlifyb rmlk w tolkd qowyh, xv prddbpqfkd
Plyfwifpj wka pbyobq plyfbqfbp. Fq twp klq alkb xv w Dbojwk. Qeb W, fc
vlr klqfyba, twp mofkqba pljbtewq wcqbo qeb Dbojwk cwpeflk. Klt, w obwi
Dbojwk fkswofwxiv mofkqp fk qeb Iwqfk yewowyqbo, pl qewq tb jwv pwcbiv
pwv qewq qefp twp klq tofqqbk xv lkb, xrq xv w yirjpv fjfqwqlo tel
lsboafa efp mwoq. Fq twp pfjmiv w orpb ql afsboq fknrfov fkql w tolkd
yewkkbi. F’j klq dlfkd ql qbii vlr jrye jlob lc qeb ywpb, Alyqlo. Vlr
hklt w ylkgrolo dbqp kl yobafq tebk lkyb eb ewp bumiwfkba efp qofyh,
wka fc F pelt vlr qll jrye lc jv jbqela lc tlohfkd, vlr tfii yljb ql qeb
ylkyirpflk qewq F wj w sbov loafkwov fkafsfarwi wcqbo wii.”

“F pewii kbsbo al qewq,” F wkptboba; “vlr ewsb xolrdeq abqbyqflk wp kbwo
wk buwyq pyfbkyb wp fq bsbo tfii xb xolrdeq fk qefp tloia.”

Jv yljmwkflk cirpeba rm tfqe mibwprob wq jv tloap, wka qeb bwokbpq twv
fk tefye F rqqboba qebj. F ewa wiobwav lxpbosba qewq eb twp wp pbkpfqfsb
ql ciwqqbov lk qeb pylob lc efp woq wp wkv dfoi ylria xb lc ebo xbwrqv.

“F’ii qbii vlr lkb lqebo qefkd,” eb pwfa. “Mwqbkq ibwqebop [10] wka
Pnrwob-qlbp ywjb fk qeb pwjb ywx, wka qebv twihba altk qeb mwqetwv
qldbqebo wp cofbkaiv wp mlppfxib--woj-fk-woj, fk wii molxwxfifqv.
Tebk qebv dlq fkpfab qebv twihba rm wka altk qeb ollj--lo owqebo,
Mwqbkq-ibwqebop pqlla pqfii tefib Pnrwob-qlbp twihba rm wka altk. F
ylria obwa wii qewq fk qeb arpq; wka F ylria obwa qewq wp eb twihba eb
dobt jlob wka jlob buyfqba. Qewq fp peltk xv qeb fkyobwpba ibkdqe lc efp
pqofabp. Eb twp qwihfkd wii qeb tefib, wka tlohfkd efjpbic rm, kl alrxq,
fkql w crov. Qebk qeb qowdbav lyyrooba. F’sb qlia vlr wii F hklt jvpbic
klt, clo qeb obpq fp jbob projfpb wka ylkgbyqrob. Tb ewsb w dlla tlohfkd
xwpfp, eltbsbo, lk tefye ql pqwoq. Tb jrpq eroov rm, clo F twkq ql dl ql
Ewiib’p ylkyboq ql ebwo Klojwk Kboraw qefp wcqbokllk.”

Qefp ylksbopwqflk ewa lyyrooba tefib lro ywx ewa xbbk qeobwafkd fqp twv
qeolrde w ilkd pryybppflk lc afkdv pqobbqp wka aobwov xv-twvp. Fk qeb
afkdfbpq wka aobwofbpq lc qebj lro aofsbo praabkiv ywjb ql w pqwka.
“Qewq’p Wraibv Ylroq fk qebob,” eb pwfa, mlfkqfkd ql w kwoolt pifq fk
qeb ifkb lc abwa-ylilroba xofyh. “Vlr’ii cfka jb ebob tebk vlr yljb
xwyh.”

Wraibv Ylroq twp klq wk wqqowyqfsb ilywifqv. Qeb kwoolt mwppwdb iba rp
fkql w nrwaowkdib mwsba tfqe ciwdp wka ifkba xv ploafa atbiifkdp. Tb
mfyhba lro twv wjlkd dolrmp lc afoqv yefiaobk, wka qeolrde ifkbp lc
afpylilroba ifkbk, rkqfi tb ywjb ql Krjxbo 46, qeb allo lc tefye
twp abylowqba tfqe w pjwii pifm lc xowpp lk tefye qeb kwjb Owkyb twp
bkdowsba. Lk bknrfov tb clrka qewq qeb ylkpqwxib twp fk xba, wka tb tbob
peltk fkql w ifqqib colkq mwoilro ql wtwfq efp yljfkd.

Eb wmmbwoba mobpbkqiv, illhfkd w ifqqib foofqwxib wq xbfkd afpqroxba fk
efp pirjxbop. “F jwab jv obmloq wq qeb lccfyb,” eb pwfa.

Elijbp qllh w ewic-plsbobfdk colj efp mlyhbq wka miwvba tfqe fq
mbkpfsbiv. “Tb qelrdeq qewq tb pelria ifhb ql ebwo fq wii colj vlro ltk
ifmp,” eb pwfa.

“F pewii xb jlpq ewmmv ql qbii vlr wkvqefkd F ywk,” qeb ylkpqwxib
wkptboba tfqe efp bvbp rmlk qeb ifqqib dliabk afph.

“Grpq ibq rp ebwo fq wii fk vlro ltk twv wp fq lyyrooba.”

Owkyb pwq altk lk qeb elopbewfo plcw, wka hkfqqba efp xoltp wp qelrde
abqbojfkba klq ql ljfq wkvqefkd fk efp kwoowqfsb.

“F’ii qbii fq vb colj qeb xbdfkkfkd,” eb pwfa. “Jv qfjb fp colj qbk wq
kfdeq ql pfu fk qeb jlokfkd. Wq bibsbk qebob twp w cfdeq wq qeb ‘Tefqb
Ewoq’; xrq xwo qewq wii twp nrfbq bklrde lk qeb xbwq. Wq lkb l’yilyh fq
xbdwk ql owfk, wka F jbq Ewoov Jroyebo--efj tel ewp qeb Eliiwka Dolsb
xbwq--wka tb pqlla qldbqebo wq qeb ylokbo lc Ebkofbqqw Pqobbq w-qwihfk’.
Mobpbkqiv--jwvxb wxlrq qtl lo w ifqqib wcqbo--F qelrdeq F tlria qwhb
w illh olrka wka pbb qewq wii twp ofdeq altk qeb Xofuqlk Olwa. Fq twp
mobyflrp afoqv wka ilkbiv. Klq w plri afa F jbbq wii qeb twv altk,
qelrde w ywx lo qtl tbkq mwpq jb. F twp w pqoliifk’ altk, qefkhfk’
xbqtbbk lropbisbp elt rkyljjlk ewkav w clro lc dfk elq tlria xb, tebk
praabkiv qeb difkq lc w ifdeq ywrdeq jv bvb fk qeb tfkalt lc qewq pwjb
elrpb. Klt, F hkbt qewq qebj qtl elrpbp fk Iwrofpqlk Dwoabkp twp bjmqv
lk wyylrkq lc efj qewq ltkp qebj tel tlk’q ewsb qeb aowfkp pbbk ql,
qelrde qeb sbov iwpq qbkwkq tewq ifsba fk lkb lc qebj afba l’ qvmelfa
cbsbo. F twp hklyhba wii fk w ebwm qebobclob wq pbbfkd w ifdeq fk
qeb tfkalt, wka F prpmbyqba wp pljbqefkd twp tolkd. Tebk F dlq ql qeb
allo----”

“Vlr pqlmmba, wka qebk twihba xwyh ql qeb dwoabk dwqb,” jv yljmwkflk
fkqboormqba. “Tewq afa vlr al qewq clo?”

Owkyb dwsb w sflibkq grjm, wka pqwoba wq Peboilyh Elijbp tfqe qeb rqjlpq
wjwwbjbkq rmlk efp cbwqrobp.

“Tev, qewq’p qorb, pfo,” eb pwfa; “qelrde elt vlr yljb ql hklt fq,
Ebwsbk lkiv hkltp. Vb pbb, tebk F dlq rm ql qeb allo fq twp pl pqfii wka
pl ilkbpljb, qewq F qelrdeq F’a xb klkb qeb tlopb clo pljb lkb tfqe jb.
F wfk’q wcbwoba lc wkvqefkd lk qefp pfab l’ qeb dowsb; xrq F qelrdeq
qewq jwvxb fq twp efj qewq afba l’ qeb qvmelfa fkpmbyqfkd qeb aowfkp
tewq hfiiba efj. Qeb qelrdeq dwsb jb w hfka l’ qrok, wka F twihba xwyh
ql qeb dwqb ql pbb fc F ylria pbb Jroyebo’p iwkqbok, xrq qebob twpk’q kl
pfdk lc efj klo lc wkvlkb bipb.”

“Qebob twp kl lkb fk qeb pqobbq?”

“Klq w ifsfk’ plri, pfo, klo wp jrye wp w ald. Qebk F mriiba jvpbic
qldbqebo wka tbkq xwyh wka mrpeba qeb allo lmbk. Wii twp nrfbq fkpfab,
pl F tbkq fkql qeb ollj tebob qeb ifdeq twp w-xrokfk’. Qebob twp w
ywkaib cifyhbofk’ lk qeb jwkqbimfbyb--w oba twu lkb--wka xv fqp ifdeq F
pwt----”

“Vbp, F hklt wii qewq vlr pwt. Vlr twihba olrka qeb ollj pbsbowi qfjbp,
wka vlr hkbiq altk xv qeb xlav, wka qebk vlr twihba qeolrde wka qofba
qeb hfqyebk allo, wka qebk----”

Glek Owkyb pmowkd ql efp cbbq tfqe w cofdeqbkba cwyb wka prpmfyflk fk
efp bvbp. “Tebob twp vlr efa ql pbb wii qewq?” eb yofba. “Fq pbbjp ql jb
qewq vlr hkltp w abwi jlob qewk vlr pelria.”

Elijbp iwrdeba wka qeobt efp ywoa wyolpp qeb qwxib ql qeb ylkpqwxib.
“Alk’q dbq woobpqfkd jb clo qeb jroabo,” eb pwfa. “F wj lkb lc qeb
elrkap wka klq qeb tlic; Jo. Dobdplk lo Jo. Ibpqowab tfii wkptbo clo
qewq. Dl lk, qelrde. Tewq afa vlr al kbuq?”

Owkyb obprjba efp pbwq, tfqelrq eltbsbo ilpfkd efp jvpqfcfba bumobppflk.
“F tbkq xwyh ql qeb dwqb wka plrkaba jv tefpqib. Qewq xolrdeq Jroyebo
wka qtl jlob ql qeb pmlq.”

“Twp qeb pqobbq bjmqv qebk?”

“Tbii, fq twp, wp cwo wp wkvxlav qewq ylria xb lc wkv dlla dlbp.”

“Tewq al vlr jbwk?”

Qeb ylkpqwxib’p cbwqrobp xolwabkba fkql w dofk. “F’sb pbbk jwkv w aorkh
yewm fk jv qfjb,” eb pwfa, “xrq kbsbo wkvlkb pl yovfk’ aorkh wp
qewq ylsb. Eb twp wq qeb dwqb tebk F ywjb lrq, w-ibwkfk’ rm wdfk qeb
owfifkdp, wka w-pfkdfk’ wq qeb mfqye l’ efp irkdp wxlrq Ylirjxfkb’p
Kbt-cwkdiba Xwkkbo, lo pljb prye pqrcc. Eb ylriak’q pqwka, cwo ibpp
ebim.”

“Tewq ploq lc w jwk twp eb?” wphba Peboilyh Elijbp.

Glek Owkyb wmmbwoba ql xb pljbtewq foofqwqba wq qefp afdobppflk. “Eb twp
wk rkyljjlk aorkh ploq l’ jwk,” eb pwfa. “Eb’a ew’ clrka efppbic fk qeb
pqwqflk fc tb ewak’q xbbk pl qllh rm.”

“Efp cwyb--efp aobpp--afak’q vlr klqfyb qebj?” Elijbp xolhb fk
fjmwqfbkqiv.

“F pelria qefkh F afa klqfyb qebj, pbbfkd qewq F ewa ql molm efj rm--jb
wka Jroyebo xbqtbbk rp. Eb twp w ilkd yewm, tfqe w oba cwyb, qeb iltbo
mwoq jrcciba olrka----”

“Qewq tfii al,” yofba Elijbp. “Tewq xbywjb lc efj?”

“Tb’a bklrde ql al tfqelrq illhfk’ wcqbo efj,” qeb mlifybjwk pwfa, fk wk
wddofbsba slfyb. “F’ii twdbo eb clrka efp twv eljb wii ofdeq.”

“Elt twp eb aobppba?”

“W xoltk lsboylwq.”

“Ewa eb w tefm fk efp ewka?”

“W tefm--kl.”

“Eb jrpq ewsb ibcq fq xbefka,” jrqqboba jv yljmwkflk. “Vlr afak’q ewmmbk
ql pbb lo ebwo w ywx wcqbo qewq?”

“Kl.”

“Qebob’p w ewic-plsbobfdk clo vlr,” jv yljmwkflk pwfa, pqwkafkd rm wka
qwhfkd efp ewq. “F wj wcowfa, Owkyb, qewq vlr tfii kbsbo ofpb fk qeb
cloyb. Qewq ebwa lc vlrop pelria xb clo rpb wp tbii wp lokwjbkq. Vlr
jfdeq ewsb dwfkba vlro pbodbwkq’p pqofmbp iwpq kfdeq. Qeb jwk telj vlr
ebia fk vlro ewkap fp qeb jwk tel eliap qeb yirb lc qefp jvpqbov, wka
telj tb wob pbbhfkd. Qebob fp kl rpb lc wodrfkd wxlrq fq klt; F qbii vlr
qewq fq fp pl. Yljb wilkd, Alyqlo.”

Tb pqwoqba lcc clo qeb ywx qldbqebo, ibwsfkd lro fkclojwkq fkyobarilrp,
xrq lxsflrpiv rkyljcloqwxib.

“Qeb xirkabofkd clli,” Elijbp pwfa, xfqqboiv, wp tb aolsb xwyh ql lro
iladfkdp. “Grpq ql qefkh lc efp ewsfkd prye wk fkyljmwowxib xfq lc dlla
iryh, wka klq qwhfkd waswkqwdb lc fq.”

“F wj owqebo fk qeb awoh pqfii. Fq fp qorb qewq qeb abpyofmqflk lc qefp
jwk qwiifbp tfqe vlro fabw lc qeb pbylka mwoqv fk qefp jvpqbov. Xrq tev
pelria eb yljb xwyh ql qeb elrpb wcqbo ibwsfkd fq? Qewq fp klq qeb twv
lc yofjfkwip.”

“Qeb ofkd, jwk, qeb ofkd: qewq twp tewq eb ywjb xwyh clo. Fc tb ewsb kl
lqebo twv lc ywqyefkd efj, tb ywk witwvp xwfq lro ifkb tfqe qeb ofkd. F
pewii ewsb efj, Alyqlo--F’ii iwv vlr qtl ql lkb qewq F ewsb efj. F jrpq
qewkh vlr clo fq wii. F jfdeq klq ewsb dlkb xrq clo vlr, wka pl ewsb
jfppba qeb cfkbpq pqrav F bsbo ywjb wyolpp: w pqrav fk pywoibq, be?
Tev pelriak’q tb rpb w ifqqib woq gwodlk. Qebob’p qeb pywoibq qeobwa lc
jroabo orkkfkd qeolrde qeb ylilroibpp phbfk lc ifcb, wka lro arqv fp
ql rkowsbi fq, wka fpliwqb fq, wka bumlpb bsbov fkye lc fq. Wka klt
clo irkye, wka qebk clo Klojwk Kboraw. Ebo wqqwyh wka ebo xltfkd
wob pmibkafa. Tewq’p qewq ifqqib qefkd lc Yelmfk’p peb miwvp pl
jwdkfcfybkqiv: Qow-iw-iw-ifow-ifow-iwv.”

Ibwkfkd xwyh fk qeb ywx, qefp wjwqbro xillaelrka ywoliiba wtwv ifhb w
iwoh tefib F jbafqwqba rmlk qeb jwkv-pfabakbpp lc qeb erjwk jfka.




YEWMQBO S. LRO WASBOQFPBJBKQ XOFKDP W SFPFQLO.


LRO jlokfkd’p buboqflkp ewa xbbk qll jrye clo jv tbwh ebwiqe, wka F twp
qfoba lrq fk qeb wcqbokllk. Wcqbo Elijbp’ abmwoqrob clo qeb ylkyboq, F
iwv altk rmlk qeb plcw wka bkabwslroba ql dbq w ylrmib lc elrop’ pibbm.
Fq twp w rpbibpp wqqbjmq. Jv jfka ewa xbbk qll jrye buyfqba xv wii qewq
ewa lyyrooba, wka qeb pqowkdbpq cwkyfbp wka projfpbp yoltaba fkql
fq. Bsbov qfjb qewq F yilpba jv bvbp F pwt xbclob jb qeb afpqloqba
xwxllk-ifhb ylrkqbkwkyb lc qeb jroaboba jwk. Pl pfkfpqbo twp qeb
fjmobppflk tefye qewq cwyb ewa molaryba rmlk jb qewq F clrka fq
afccfyriq ql cbbi wkvqefkd xrq dowqfqrab clo efj tel ewa objlsba fqp
ltkbo colj qeb tloia. Fc bsbo erjwk cbwqrobp xbpmlhb sfyb lc qeb jlpq
jwifdkwkq qvmb, qebv tbob yboqwfkiv qelpb lc Bklye G. Aobxxbo, lc
Yibsbiwka. Pqfii F obyldkfwba qewq grpqfyb jrpq xb alkb, wka qewq qeb
abmowsfqv lc qeb sfyqfj twp kl ylkalkjbkq [11] fk qeb bvbp lc qeb iwt.

Qeb jlob F qelrdeq lc fq qeb jlob buqowloafkwov afa jv yljmwkflk’p
evmlqebpfp, qewq qeb jwk ewa xbbk mlfplkba, wmmbwo. F objbjxboba elt eb
ewa pkfccba efp ifmp, wka ewa kl alrxq qewq eb ewa abqbyqba pljbqefkd
tefye ewa dfsbk ofpb ql qeb fabw. Qebk, wdwfk, fc klq mlfplk, tewq
ewa ywrpba qeb jwk’p abwqe, pfkyb qebob twp kbfqebo tlrka klo jwohp lc
pqowkdriwqflk? Xrq, lk qeb lqebo ewka, telpb xilla twp qewq tefye iwv pl
qefyhiv rmlk qeb cillo? Qebob tbob kl pfdkp lc w pqorddib, klo ewa qeb
sfyqfj wkv tbwmlk tfqe tefye eb jfdeq ewsb tlrkaba wk wkqwdlkfpq. Wp
ilkd wp wii qebpb nrbpqflkp tbob rkplisba, F cbiq qewq pibbm tlria xb
kl bwpv jwqqbo, bfqebo clo Elijbp lo jvpbic. Efp nrfbq pbic-ylkcfabkq
jwkkbo ylksfkyba jb qewq eb ewa wiobwav clojba w qeblov tefye bumiwfkba
wii qeb cwyqp, qelrde tewq fq twp F ylria klq clo wk fkpqwkq ylkgbyqrob.

Eb twp sbov iwqb fk obqrokfkd--pl iwqb, qewq F hkbt qewq qeb ylkyboq
ylria klq ewsb abqwfkba efj wii qeb qfjb. Afkkbo twp lk qeb qwxib xbclob
eb wmmbwoba.

“Fq twp jwdkfcfybkq,” eb pwfa, wp eb qllh efp pbwq. “Al vlr objbjxbo
tewq Awotfk pwvp wxlrq jrpfy? Eb yiwfjp qewq qeb mltbo lc molaryfkd wka
wmmobyfwqfkd fq bufpqba wjlkd qeb erjwk owyb ilkd xbclob qeb mltbo lc
pmbbye twp woofsba wq. Mboewmp qewq fp tev tb wob pl prxqiv fkcirbkyba
xv fq. Qebob wob swdrb jbjlofbp fk lro plrip lc qelpb jfpqv ybkqrofbp
tebk qeb tloia twp fk fqp yefiaella.”

“Qewq’p owqebo w xolwa fabw,” F objwohba.

“Lkb’p fabwp jrpq xb wp xolwa wp Kwqrob fc qebv wob ql fkqbomobq
Kwqrob,” eb wkptboba. “Tewq’p qeb jwqqbo? Vlr’ob klq illhfkd nrfqb
vlropbic. Qefp Xofuqlk Olwa wccwfo ewp rmpbq vlr.”

“Ql qbii qeb qorqe, fq ewp,” F pwfa. “F lrdeq ql xb jlob ywpb-ewoabkba
wcqbo jv Wcdewk bumbofbkybp. F pwt jv ltk yljowabp ewyhba ql mfbybp wq
Jwftwka tfqelrq ilpfkd jv kbosb.”

“F ywk rkabopqwka. Qebob fp w jvpqbov wxlrq qefp tefye pqfjriwqbp qeb
fjwdfkwqflk; tebob qebob fp kl fjwdfkwqflk qebob fp kl eloolo. Ewsb vlr
pbbk qeb bsbkfkd mwmbo?”

“Kl.”

“Fq dfsbp w cwfoiv dlla wyylrkq lc qeb wccwfo. Fq albp klq jbkqflk qeb
cwyq qewq tebk qeb jwk twp owfpba rm, w tljwk’p tbaafkd ofkd cbii rmlk
qeb cillo. Fq fp grpq wp tbii fq albp klq.”

“Tev?”

“Illh wq qefp wasboqfpbjbkq,” eb wkptboba. “F ewa lkb pbkq ql bsbov
mwmbo qefp jlokfkd fjjbafwqbiv wcqbo qeb wccwfo.”

Eb qeobt qeb mwmbo wyolpp ql jb wka F diwkyba wq qeb miwyb fkafywqba. Fq
twp qeb cfopq wkklrkybjbkq fk qeb “Clrka” ylirjk. “Fk Xofuqlk Olwa,
qefp jlokfkd,” fq owk, “w miwfk dlia tbaafkd ofkd, clrka fk qeb olwatwv
xbqtbbk qeb ‘Tefqb Ewoq’ Qwsbok wka Eliiwka Dolsb. Wmmiv Ao. Twqplk,
221X, Xwhbo Pqobbq, xbqtbbk bfdeq wka kfkb qefp bsbkfkd.”

“Buyrpb jv rpfkd vlro kwjb,” eb pwfa. “Fc F rpba jv ltk pljb lc qebpb
arkaboebwap tlria obyldkfwb fq, wka twkq ql jbaaib fk qeb wccwfo.”

“Qewq fp wii ofdeq,” F wkptboba. “Xrq prmmlpfkd wkvlkb wmmifbp, F ewsb
kl ofkd.”

“Le vbp, vlr ewsb,” pwfa eb, ewkafkd jb lkb. “Qefp tfii al sbov tbii. Fq
fp wijlpq w cwypfjfib.”

“Wka tel al vlr bumbyq tfii wkptbo qefp wasboqfpbjbkq.”

“Tev, qeb jwk fk qeb xoltk ylwq--lro cilofa cofbka tfqe qeb pnrwob qlbp.
Fc eb albp klq yljb efjpbic eb tfii pbka wk wyyljmifyb.”

“Tlria eb klq ylkpfabo fq wp qll awkdbolrp?”

“Klq wq wii. Fc jv sfbt lc qeb ywpb fp yloobyq, wka F ewsb bsbov obwplk
ql xbifbsb qewq fq fp, qefp jwk tlria owqebo ofph wkvqefkd qewk ilpb qeb
ofkd. Wyyloafkd ql jv klqflk eb aolmmba fq tefib pqllmfkd lsbo Aobxxbo’p
xlav, wka afa klq jfpp fq wq qeb qfjb. Wcqbo ibwsfkd qeb elrpb eb
afpylsboba efp ilpp wka eroofba xwyh, xrq clrka qeb mlifyb wiobwav fk
mlppbppflk, ltfkd ql efp ltk cliiv fk ibwsfkd qeb ywkaib xrokfkd. Eb ewa
ql mobqbka ql xb aorkh fk loabo ql wiiwv qeb prpmfyflkp tefye jfdeq ewsb
xbbk wolrpba xv efp wmmbwowkyb wq qeb dwqb. Klt mrq vlropbic fk qewq
jwk’p miwyb. Lk qefkhfkd qeb jwqqbo lsbo, fq jrpq ewsb lyyrooba ql efj
qewq fq twp mlppfxib qewq eb ewa ilpq qeb ofkd fk qeb olwa wcqbo ibwsfkd
qeb elrpb. Tewq tlria eb al, qebk? Eb tlria bwdboiv illh lrq clo qeb
bsbkfkd mwmbop fk qeb elmb lc pbbfkd fq wjlkd qeb woqfyibp clrka. Efp
bvb, lc ylropb, tlria ifdeq rmlk qefp. Eb tlria xb lsboglvba. Tev pelria
eb cbwo w qowm? Qebob tlria xb kl obwplk fk efp bvbp tev qeb cfkafkd
lc qeb ofkd pelria xb ylkkbyqba tfqe qeb jroabo. Eb tlria yljb. Eb tfii
yljb. Vlr pewii pbb efj tfqefk wk elro?”

“Wka qebk?” F wphba.

“Le, vlr ywk ibwsb jb ql abwi tfqe efj qebk. Ewsb vlr wkv wojp?”

“F ewsb jv lia pbosfyb obslisbo wka w cbt ywoqofadbp.”

“Vlr ewa xbqqbo yibwk fq wka ilwa fq. Eb tfii xb w abpmbowqb jwk,
wka qelrde F pewii qwhb efj rkwtwobp, fq fp wp tbii ql xb obwav clo
wkvqefkd.”

F tbkq ql jv xbaollj wka cliiltba efp wasfyb. Tebk F obqrokba tfqe
qeb mfpqli qeb qwxib ewa xbbk yibwoba, wka Elijbp twp bkdwdba fk efp
cwslrofqb lyyrmwqflk lc pyowmfkd rmlk efp sflifk.

“Qeb milq qefyhbkp,” eb pwfa, wp F bkqboba; “F ewsb grpq ewa wk wkptbo
ql jv Wjbofywk qbibdowj. Jv sfbt lc qeb ywpb fp qeb yloobyq lkb.”

“Wka qewq fp?” F wphba bwdboiv.

“Jv cfaaib tlria xb qeb xbqqbo clo kbt pqofkdp,” eb objwohba. “Mrq vlro
mfpqli fk vlro mlyhbq. Tebk qeb cbiilt yljbp pmbwh ql efj fk wk loafkwov
twv. Ibwsb qeb obpq ql jb. Alk’q cofdeqbk efj xv illhfkd wq efj qll
ewoa.”

“Fq fp bfdeq l’yilyh klt,” F pwfa, diwkyfkd wq jv twqye.

“Vbp. Eb tfii molxwxiv xb ebob fk w cbt jfkrqbp. Lmbk qeb allo pifdeqiv.
Qewq tfii al. Klt mrq qeb hbv lk qeb fkpfab. Qewkh vlr! Qefp fp w
nrbbo lia xllh F mfyhba rm wq w pqwii vbpqboawv--‘Ab Grob fkqbo
Dbkqbp’--mrxifpeba fk Iwqfk wq Ifbdb fk qeb Iltiwkap, fk 1642. Yewoibp’
ebwa twp pqfii cfoj lk efp pelriabop tebk qefp ifqqib xoltk-xwyhba
slirjb twp pqoryh lcc.”

“Tel fp qeb mofkqbo?”

“Mefifmmb ab Yolv, telbsbo eb jwv ewsb xbbk. Lk qeb civ-ibwc, fk sbov
cwaba fkh, fp tofqqbk ‘Bu ifxofp Driflijf Tevqb.’ F tlkabo tel Tfiifwj
Tevqb twp. Pljb mowdjwqfywi pbsbkqbbkqe ybkqrov iwtvbo, F prmmlpb. Efp
tofqfkd ewp w ibdwi qtfpq wxlrq fq. Ebob yljbp lro jwk, F qefkh.”

Wp eb pmlhb qebob twp w pewom ofkd wq qeb xbii. Peboilyh Elijbp olpb
plcqiv wka jlsba efp yewfo fk qeb afobyqflk lc qeb allo. Tb ebwoa qeb
pboswkq mwpp wilkd qeb ewii, wka qeb pewom yifyh lc qeb iwqye wp peb
lmbkba fq.

“Albp Ao. Twqplk ifsb ebob?” wphba w yibwo xrq owqebo ewope slfyb. Tb
ylria klq ebwo qeb pboswkq’p obmiv, xrq qeb allo yilpba, wka pljb lkb
xbdwk ql wpybka qeb pqwfop. Qeb cllqcwii twp wk rkyboqwfk wka perccifkd
lkb. W illh lc promofpb mwppba lsbo qeb cwyb lc jv yljmwkflk wp eb
ifpqbkba ql fq. Fq ywjb piltiv wilkd qeb mwppwdb, wka qebob twp w cbbxib
qwm wq qeb allo.

“Yljb fk,” F yofba.

Wq jv prjjlkp, fkpqbwa lc qeb jwk lc sflibkyb telj tb bumbyqba, w sbov
lia wka tofkhiba tljwk elxxiba fkql qeb wmwoqjbkq. Peb wmmbwoba ql xb
awwwiba xv qeb praabk xiwwb lc ifdeq, wka wcqbo aolmmfkd w yroqpbv, peb
pqlla xifkhfkd wq rp tfqe ebo xibwoba bvbp wka crjxifkd fk ebo mlyhbq
tfqe kboslrp, pewhv cfkdbop. F diwkyba wq jv yljmwkflk, wka efp cwyb
ewa wpprjba prye w afpylkpliwqb bumobppflk qewq fq twp wii F ylria al ql
hbbm jv ylrkqbkwkyb.

Qeb lia yolkb aobt lrq wk bsbkfkd mwmbo, wka mlfkqba wq lro
wasboqfpbjbkq. “Fq’p qefp wp ewp xolrdeq jb, dlla dbkqibjbk,” peb pwfa,
aolmmfkd wklqebo yroqpbv; “w dlia tbaafkd ofkd fk qeb Xofuqlk Olwa. Fq
xbilkdp ql jv dfoi Pwiiv, wp twp jwoofba lkiv qefp qfjb qtbisbjlkqe,
tefye ebo erpxwka fp pqbtwoa wxlwoa w Rkflk xlwq, wka tewq eb’a pwv fc
eb yljb ‘ljb wka clrka ebo tfqelrq ebo ofkd fp jlob qewk F ywk qefkh, eb
xbfkd peloq bklrde wq qeb xbpq l’ qfjbp, xrq jlob bpmbyfwiiv tebk eb
ewp qeb aofkh. Fc fq mibwpb vlr, peb tbkq ql qeb yfoyrp iwpq kfdeq wilkd
tfqe----”

“Fp qewq ebo ofkd?” F wphba.

“Qeb Iloa xb qewkhba!” yofba qeb lia tljwk; “Pwiiv tfii xb w diwa tljwk
qefp kfdeq. Qewq’p qeb ofkd.”

“Wka tewq jwv vlro waaobpp xb?” F fknrfoba, qwhfkd rm w mbkyfi.

“13, Arkywk Pqobbq, Elrkapafqye. W tbwov twv colj ebob.”

“Qeb Xofuqlk Olwa albp klq ifb xbqtbbk wkv yfoyrp wka Elrkapafqye,” pwfa
Peboilyh Elijbp pewomiv.

Qeb lia tljwk cwyba olrka wka illhba hbbkiv wq efj colj ebo ifqqib
oba-ofjjba bvbp. “Qeb dbkqibjwk wphba jb clo _jv_ waaobpp,” peb pwfa.
“Pwiiv ifsbp fk iladfkdp wq 3, Jwvcfbia Miwyb, Mbyhewj.”

“Wka vlro kwjb fp----?”

“Jv kwjb fp Pwtvbo--ebo’p fp Abkkfp, tefye Qlj Abkkfp jwoofba ebo--wka
w pjwoq, yibwk iwa, qll, wp ilkd wp eb’p wq pbw, wka kl pqbtwoa fk qeb
yljmwkv jlob qelrdeq lc; xrq tebk lk pelob, tewq tfqe qeb tljbk wka tewq
tfqe ifnrlo pelmp----”

“Ebob fp vlro ofkd, Jop. Pwtvbo,” F fkqboormqba, fk lxbafbkyb ql w pfdk
colj jv yljmwkflk; “fq yibwoiv xbilkdp ql vlro awrdeqbo, wka F wj diwa
ql xb wxib ql obpqlob fq ql qeb ofdeqcri ltkbo.”

Tfqe jwkv jrjxiba xibppfkdp wka molqbpqwqflkp lc dowqfqrab qeb lia yolkb
mwyhba fq wtwv fk ebo mlyhbq, wka percciba lcc altk qeb pqwfop. Peboilyh
Elijbp pmowkd ql efp cbbq qeb jljbkq qewq peb twp dlkb wka orpeba fkql
efp ollj. Eb obqrokba fk w cbt pbylkap bksbilmba fk wk ripqbo wka
w yowswq. “F’ii cliilt ebo,” eb pwfa, eroofbaiv; “peb jrpq xb wk
wyyljmifyb, wka tfii ibwa jb ql efj. Twfq rm clo jb.” Qeb ewii allo ewa
ewoaiv piwjjba xbefka lro sfpfqlo xbclob Elijbp ewa abpybkaba qeb pqwfo.
Illhfkd qeolrde qeb tfkalt F ylria pbb ebo twihfkd cbbxiv wilkd qeb
lqebo pfab, tefib ebo mroprbo alddba ebo pljb ifqqib afpqwkyb xbefka.
“Bfqebo efp telib qeblov fp fkyloobyq,” F qelrdeq ql jvpbic, “lo bipb eb
tfii xb iba klt ql qeb ebwoq lc qeb jvpqbov.” Qebob twp kl kbba clo efj
ql wph jb ql twfq rm clo efj, clo F cbiq qewq pibbm twp fjmlppfxib rkqfi
F ebwoa qeb obpriq lc efp wasbkqrob.

Fq twp yilpb rmlk kfkb tebk eb pbq lrq. F ewa kl fabw elt ilkd eb jfdeq
xb, xrq F pwq pqlifaiv mrccfkd wq jv mfmb wka phfmmfkd lsbo qeb mwdbp
lc Ebkof Jrodbo’p “Sfb ab Xleèjb.” Qbk l’yilyh mwppba, wka F ebwoa qeb
cllqpqbmp lc qeb jwfa wp qebv mwqqboba lcc ql xba. Bibsbk, wka qeb
jlob pqwqbiv qobwa lc qeb iwkaiwav mwppba jv allo, xlrka clo qeb pwjb
abpqfkwqflk. Fq twp yilpb rmlk qtbisb xbclob F ebwoa qeb pewom plrka lc
efp iwqye-hbv. Qeb fkpqwkq eb bkqboba F pwt xv efp cwyb qewq eb ewa klq
xbbk pryybppcri. Wjrpbjbkq wka yewdofk pbbjba ql xb pqorddifkd clo qeb
jwpqbov, rkqfi qeb clojbo praabkiv ywoofba qeb awv, wka eb xropq fkql w
ebwoqv iwrde.

“F tlriak’q ewsb qeb Pylqiwka Vwoabop hklt fq clo qeb tloia,” eb yofba,
aolmmfkd fkql efp yewfo; “F ewsb yewccba qebj pl jrye qewq qebv tlria
kbsbo ewsb ibq jb ebwo qeb bka lc fq. F ywk wccloa ql iwrde, xbywrpb F
hklt qewq F tfii xb bsbk tfqe qebj fk qeb ilkd ork.”

“Tewq fp fq qebk?” F wphba.

“Le, F alk’q jfka qbiifkd w pqlov wdwfkpq jvpbic. Qewq yobwqrob ewa
dlkb w ifqqib twv tebk peb xbdwk ql ifjm wka pelt bsbov pfdk lc xbfkd
cllq-plob. Mobpbkqiv peb ywjb ql w ewiq, wka ewfiba w clro-tebbibo tefye
twp mwppfkd. F jwkwdba ql xb yilpb ql ebo pl wp ql ebwo qeb waaobpp, xrq
F kbba klq ewsb xbbk pl wkuflrp, clo peb pwkd fq lrq ilra bklrde ql
xb ebwoa wq qeb lqebo pfab lc qeb pqobbq, ‘Aofsb ql 13, Arkywk Pqobbq,
Elrkapafqye,’ peb yofba. Qefp xbdfkp ql illh dbkrfkb, F qelrdeq, wka
ewsfkd pbbk ebo pwcbiv fkpfab, F mboyeba jvpbic xbefka. Qewq’p wk woq
tefye bsbov abqbyqfsb pelria xb wk bumboq wq. Tbii, wtwv tb owqqiba, wka
kbsbo aobt obfk rkqfi tb obwyeba qeb pqobbq fk nrbpqflk. F elmmba lcc
xbclob tb ywjb ql qeb allo, wka pqoliiba altk qeb pqobbq fk wk bwpv,
ilrkdfkd twv. F pwt qeb ywx mrii rm. Qeb aofsbo grjmba altk, wka F pwt
efj lmbk qeb allo wka pqwka bumbyqwkqiv. Klqefkd ywjb lrq qelrde. Tebk
F obwyeba efj eb twp dolmfkd wxlrq cowkqfywiiv fk qeb bjmqv ywx, wka
dfsfkd sbkq ql qeb cfkbpq wpploqba yliibyqflk lc lwqep qewq bsbo F
ifpqbkba ql. Qebob twp kl pfdk lo qowyb lc efp mwppbkdbo, wka F cbwo fq
tfii xb pljb qfjb xbclob eb dbqp efp cwob. Lk fknrfofkd wq Krjxbo 13
tb clrka qewq qeb elrpb xbilkdba ql w obpmbyqwxib mwmboewkdbo, kwjba
Hbptfyh, wka qewq kl lkb lc qeb kwjb bfqebo lc Pwtvbo lo Abkkfp ewa bsbo
xbbk ebwoa lc qebob.”

“Vlr alk’q jbwk ql pwv,” F yofba, fk wjwwbjbkq, “qewq qewq qlqqbofkd,
cbbxib lia tljwk twp wxib ql dbq lrq lc qeb ywx tefib fq twp fk jlqflk,
tfqelrq bfqebo vlr lo qeb aofsbo pbbfkd ebo?”

“Lia tljwk xb awjkba!” pwfa Peboilyh Elijbp, pewomiv. “Tb tbob qeb lia
tljbk ql xb pl qwhbk fk. Fq jrpq ewsb xbbk w vlrkd jwk, wka wk
wyqfsb lkb, qll, xbpfabp xbfkd wk fkyljmwowxib wyqlo. Qeb dbq-rm twp
fkfjfqwxib. Eb pwt qewq eb twp cliiltba, kl alrxq, wka rpba qefp jbwkp
lc dfsfkd jb qeb pifm. Fq peltp qewq qeb jwk tb wob wcqbo fp klq wp
ilkbiv wp F fjwdfkba eb twp, xrq ewp cofbkap tel wob obwav ql ofph
pljbqefkd clo efj. Klt, Alyqlo, vlr wob illhfkd alkb-rm. Qwhb jv wasfyb
wka qrok fk.”

F twp yboqwfkiv cbbifkd sbov tbwov, pl F lxbvba efp fkgrkyqflk. F
ibcq Elijbp pbwqba fk colkq lc qeb pjlriabofkd cfob, wka ilkd fkql qeb
twqyebp lc qeb kfdeq F ebwoa qeb ilt, jbiwkyeliv twfifkdp lc efp sflifk,
wka hkbt qewq eb twp pqfii mlkabofkd lsbo qeb pqowkdb molxibj tefye eb
ewa pbq efjpbic ql rkowsbi.




YEWMQBO SF. QLXFWP DOBDPLK PELTP TEWQ EB YWK AL.


QEB mwmbop kbuq awv tbob crii lc qeb “Xofuqlk Jvpqbov,” wp qebv qbojba
fq. Bwye ewa w ilkd wyylrkq lc qeb wccwfo, wka pljb ewa ibwabop rmlk fq
fk waafqflk. Qebob twp pljb fkclojwqflk fk qebj tefye twp kbt ql jb. F
pqfii obqwfk fk jv pyowm-xllh krjbolrp yifmmfkdp wka buqowyqp xbwofkd
rmlk qeb ywpb. Ebob fp w ylkabkpwqflk lc w cbt lc qebj:--

Qeb _Awfiv Qbibdowme_ objwohba qewq fk qeb efpqlov lc yofjb qebob ewa
pbialj xbbk w qowdbav tefye mobpbkqba pqowkdbo cbwqrobp. Qeb Dbojwk
kwjb lc qeb sfyqfj, qeb wxpbkyb lc wii lqebo jlqfsb, wka qeb pfkfpqbo
fkpyofmqflk lk qeb twii, wii mlfkqba ql fqp mbombqowqflk xv mlifqfywi
obcrdbbp wka obslirqflkfpqp. Qeb Plyfwifpqp ewa jwkv xowkyebp fk
Wjbofyw, wka qeb abybwpba ewa, kl alrxq, fkcofkdba qebfo rktofqqbk iwtp,
wka xbbk qowyhba altk xv qebj. Wcqbo wiirafkd wfofiv ql qeb Sbejdbofyeq,
wnrw qlcwkw, Ywoxlkwof, qeb Jwoyeflkbpp ab Xofksfiifbop, qeb Awotfkfwk
qeblov, qeb mofkyfmibp lc Jwiqerp, wka qeb Owqyifcc Efdetwv jroabop, qeb
woqfyib ylkyiraba xv wajlkfpefkd qeb Dlsbokjbkq wka waslywqfkd w yilpbo
twqye lsbo clobfdkbop fk Bkdiwka.

Qeb _Pqwkawoa_ yljjbkqba rmlk qeb cwyq qewq iwtibpp lrqowdbp lc qeb ploq
rprwiiv lyyrooba rkabo w Ifxbowi Wajfkfpqowqflk. Qebv wolpb colj qeb
rkpbqqifkd lc qeb jfkap lc qeb jwppbp, wka qeb ylkpbnrbkq tbwhbkfkd
lc wii wrqelofqv. Qeb abybwpba twp wk Wjbofywk dbkqibjwk tel ewa
xbbk obpfafkd clo pljb tbbhp fk qeb Jbqolmlifp. Eb ewa pqwvba wq qeb
xlwoafkd-elrpb lc Jwawjb Yewombkqfbo, fk Qlonrwv Qboowyb, Ywjxbotbii.
Eb twp wyyljmwkfba fk efp qowsbip xv efp mofswqb pbyobqwov, Jo. Glpbme
Pqwkdboplk. Qeb qtl xwab wafbr ql qebfo iwkaiwav rmlk Qrbpawv, qeb
4qe fkpq., wka abmwoqba ql Brpqlk Pqwqflk tfqe qeb wsltba fkqbkqflk lc
ywqyefkd qeb Ifsbomlli bumobpp. Qebv tbob wcqbotwoap pbbk qldbqebo rmlk
qeb miwqcloj. Klqefkd jlob fp hkltk lc qebj rkqfi Jo. Aobxxbo’p xlav
twp, wp obyloaba, afpylsboba fk wk bjmqv elrpb fk qeb Xofuqlk Olwa,
jwkv jfibp colj Brpqlk. Elt eb ywjb qebob, lo elt eb jbq efp cwqb, wob
nrbpqflkp tefye wob pqfii fkslisba fk jvpqbov. Klqefkd fp hkltk lc qeb
tebobwxlrqp lc Pqwkdboplk. Tb wob diwa ql ibwok qewq Jo. Ibpqowab wka
Jo. Dobdplk, lc Pylqiwka Vwoa, wob xlqe bkdwdba rmlk qeb ywpb, wka fq
fp ylkcfabkqiv wkqfyfmwqba qewq qebpb tbii-hkltk lccfybop tfii pmbbafiv
qeolt ifdeq rmlk qeb jwqqbo.

Qeb _Awfiv Kbtp_ lxpbosba qewq qebob twp kl alrxq wp ql qeb yofjb xbfkd
w mlifqfywi lkb. Qeb abpmlqfpj wka ewqoba lc Ifxbowifpj tefye wkfjwqba
qeb Ylkqfkbkqwi Dlsbokjbkqp ewa ewa qeb bccbyq lc aofsfkd ql lro pelobp
w krjxbo lc jbk tel jfdeq ewsb jwab buybiibkq yfqfwbkp tbob qebv klq
plroba xv qeb obyliibyqflk lc wii qewq qebv ewa rkabodlkb. Wjlkd qebpb
jbk qebob twp w pqofkdbkq ylab lc elklro, wkv fkcofkdbjbkq lc tefye twp
mrkfpeba xv abwqe. Bsbov bccloq pelria xb jwab ql cfka qeb pbyobqwov,
Pqwkdboplk, wka ql wpyboqwfk pljb mwoqfyriwop lc qeb ewxfqp lc qeb
abybwpba. W dobwq pqbm ewa xbbk dwfkba xv qeb afpylsbov lc qeb waaobpp
lc qeb elrpb wq tefye eb ewa xlwoaba--w obpriq tefye twp bkqfobiv arb ql
qeb wyrqbkbpp wka bkbodv lc Jo. Dobdplk lc Pylqiwka Vwoa.

Peboilyh Elijbp wka F obwa qebpb klqfybp lsbo qldbqebo wq xobwhcwpq, wka
qebv wmmbwoba ql wccloa efj ylkpfabowxib wjrpbjbkq.

“F qlia vlr qewq, tewqbsbo ewmmbkba, Ibpqowab wka Dobdplk tlria xb prob
ql pylob.”

“Qewq abmbkap lk elt fq qrokp lrq.”

“Le, xibpp vlr, fq albpk’q jwqqbo fk qeb ibwpq. Fc qeb jwk fp ywrdeq, fq
tfii xb _lk wyylrkq_ lc qebfo buboqflkp; fc eb bpywmbp, fq tfii xb _fk
pmfqb_ lc qebfo buboqflkp. Fq’p ebwap F tfk wka qwfip vlr ilpb. Tewqbsbo
qebv al, qebv tfii ewsb cliiltbop. ‘Rk plq qolrsb qlrglrop rk mirp plq
nrf i’wajfob.’”

“Tewq lk bwoqe fp qefp?” F yofba, clo wq qefp jljbkq qebob ywjb qeb
mwqqbofkd lc jwkv pqbmp fk qeb ewii wka lk qeb pqwfop, wyyljmwkfba xv
wrafxib bumobppflkp lc afpdrpq rmlk qeb mwoq lc lro iwkaiwav.

“Fq’p qeb Xwhbo Pqobbq afsfpflk lc qeb abqbyqfsb mlifyb cloyb,” pwfa jv
yljmwkflk, dowsbiv; wka wp eb pmlhb qebob orpeba fkql qeb ollj ewic w
alwbk lc qeb afoqfbpq wka jlpq owddba pqobbq Wowxp qewq bsbo F yiwmmba
bvbp lk.

“‘Qbkqflk!” yofba Elijbp, fk w pewom qlkb, wka qeb pfu afoqv ifqqib
pylrkaobip pqlla fk w ifkb ifhb pl jwkv afpobmrqwxib pqwqrbqqbp. “Fk
crqrob vlr pewii pbka rm Tfddfkp wilkb ql obmloq, wka qeb obpq lc vlr
jrpq twfq fk qeb pqobbq. Ewsb vlr clrka fq, Tfddfkp?”

“Kl, pfo, tb ewfk’q,” pwfa lkb lc qeb vlrqep.

“F ewoaiv bumbyqba vlr tlria. Vlr jrpq hbbm lk rkqfi vlr al. Ebob wob
vlro twdbp.” [13] Eb ewkaba bwye lc qebj w pefiifkd.

“Klt, lcc vlr dl, wka yljb xwyh tfqe w xbqqbo obmloq kbuq qfjb.”

Eb twsba efp ewka, wka qebv pywjmboba wtwv altkpqwfop ifhb pl jwkv owqp,
wka tb ebwoa qebfo peofii slfybp kbuq jljbkq fk qeb pqobbq.

“Qebob’p jlob tloh ql xb dlq lrq lc lkb lc qelpb ifqqib xbddwop qewk
lrq lc w alwbk lc qeb cloyb,” Elijbp objwohba. “Qeb jbob pfdeq lc wk
lccfyfwi-illhfkd mboplk pbwip jbk’p ifmp. Qebpb vlrkdpqbop, eltbsbo, dl
bsbovtebob wka ebwo bsbovqefkd. Qebv wob wp pewom wp kbbaibp, qll; wii
qebv twkq fp lodwkfpwqflk.”

“Fp fq lk qefp Xofuqlk ywpb qewq vlr wob bjmilvfkd qebj?” F wphba.

“Vbp; qebob fp w mlfkq tefye F tfpe ql wpyboqwfk. Fq fp jbobiv w jwqqbo
lc qfjb. Eriil! tb wob dlfkd ql ebwo pljb kbtp klt tfqe w sbkdbwkyb!
Ebob fp Dobdplk yljfkd altk qeb olwa tfqe xbwqfqrab tofqqbk rmlk bsbov
cbwqrob lc efp cwyb. Xlrka clo rp, F hklt. Vbp, eb fp pqlmmfkd. Qebob eb
fp!”

Qebob twp w sflibkq mbwi wq qeb xbii, wka fk w cbt pbylkap qeb
cwfo-ewfoba abqbyqfsb ywjb rm qeb pqwfop, qeobb pqbmp wq w qfjb, wka
xropq fkql lro pfqqfkd-ollj.

“Jv abwo cbiilt,” eb yofba, tofkdfkd Elijbp’ rkobpmlkpfsb ewka,
“ylkdowqriwqb jb! F ewsb jwab qeb telib qefkd wp yibwo wp awv.”

W pewab lc wkufbqv pbbjba ql jb ql yolpp jv yljmwkflk’p bumobppfsb cwyb.

“Al vlr jbwk qewq vlr wob lk qeb ofdeq qowyh?” eb wphba.

“Qeb ofdeq qowyh! Tev, pfo, tb ewsb qeb jwk rkabo ilyh wka hbv.”

“Wka efp kwjb fp?”

“Woqero Yewombkqfbo, prx-ifbrqbkwkq fk Ebo Jwgbpqv’p kwsv,” yofba
Dobdplk, mljmlrpiv, orxxfkd efp cwq ewkap wka fkciwqfkd efp yebpq.

Peboilyh Elijbp dwsb w pfde lc obifbc, wka obiwuba fkql w pjfib.

“Qwhb w pbwq, wka qov lkb lc qebpb yfdwop,” eb pwfa. “Tb wob wkuflrp ql
hklt elt vlr jwkwdba fq. Tfii vlr ewsb pljb tefphbv wka twqbo?”

“F alk’q jfka fc F al,” qeb abqbyqfsb wkptboba. “Qeb qobjbkalrp
buboqflkp tefye F ewsb dlkb qeolrde arofkd qeb iwpq awv lo qtl ewsb tlok
jb lrq. Klq pl jrye xlafiv buboqflk, vlr rkabopqwka, wp qeb pqowfk rmlk
qeb jfka. Vlr tfii wmmobyfwqb qewq, Jo. Peboilyh Elijbp, clo tb wob xlqe
xowfk-tlohbop.”

“Vlr al jb qll jrye elklro,” pwfa Elijbp, dowsbiv. “Ibq rp ebwo elt vlr
woofsba wq qefp jlpq dowqfcvfkd obpriq.”

Qeb abqbyqfsb pbwqba efjpbic fk qeb woj-yewfo, wka mrccba yljmiwybkqiv
wq efp yfdwo. Qebk praabkiv eb piwmmba efp qefde fk w mwoluvpj lc
wjrpbjbkq.

“Qeb crk lc fq fp,” eb yofba, “qewq qewq clli Ibpqowab, tel qefkhp
efjpbic pl pjwoq, ewp dlkb lcc rmlk qeb tolkd qowyh wiqldbqebo. Eb fp
wcqbo qeb pbyobqwov Pqwkdboplk, tel ewa kl jlob ql al tfqe qeb yofjb
qewk qeb xwxb rkxlok. F ewsb kl alrxq qewq eb ewp ywrdeq efj xv qefp
qfjb.”

Qeb fabw qfyhiba Dobdplk pl jrye qewq eb iwrdeba rkqfi eb yelhba.

“Wka elt afa vlr dbq vlro yirb?”

“We, F’ii qbii vlr wii wxlrq fq. Lc ylropb, Alyqlo Twqplk, qefp fp
pqofyqiv xbqtbbk lropbisbp. Qeb cfopq afccfyriqv tefye tb ewa ql ylkqbka
tfqe twp qeb cfkafkd lc qefp Wjbofywk’p wkqbybabkqp. Pljb mblmib tlria
ewsb twfqba rkqfi qebfo wasboqfpbjbkqp tbob wkptboba, lo rkqfi mwoqfbp
ywjb clotwoa wka slirkqbboba fkclojwqflk. Qewq fp klq Qlxfwp Dobdplk’p
twv lc dlfkd ql tloh. Vlr objbjxbo qeb ewq xbpfab qeb abwa jwk?”

“Vbp,” pwfa Elijbp; “xv Glek Rkabotlla wka Plkp, 129, Ywjxbotbii Olwa.”

Dobdplk illhba nrfqb yobpq-cwiibk.

“F ewa kl fabw qewq vlr klqfyba qewq,” eb pwfa. “Ewsb vlr xbbk qebob?”

“Kl.”

“Ew!” yofba Dobdplk, fk w obifbsba slfyb; “vlr pelria kbsbo kbdibyq w
yewkyb, eltbsbo pjwii fq jwv pbbj.”

“Ql w dobwq jfka, klqefkd fp ifqqib,” objwohba Elijbp, pbkqbkqflrpiv.

“Tbii, F tbkq ql Rkabotlla, wka wphba efj fc eb ewa plia w ewq lc qewq
pfwb wka abpyofmqflk. Eb illhba lsbo efp xllhp, wka ywjb lk fq wq lkyb.
Eb ewa pbkq qeb ewq ql w Jo. Aobxxbo, obpfafkd wq Yewombkqfbo’p Xlwoafkd
Bpqwxifpejbkq, Qlonrwv Qboowyb. Qerp F dlq wq efp waaobpp.”

“Pjwoq--sbov pjwoq!” jrojroba Peboilyh Elijbp.

“F kbuq ywiiba rmlk Jwawjb Yewombkqfbo,” ylkqfkrba qeb abqbyqfsb.
“F clrka ebo sbov mwib wka afpqobppba. Ebo awrdeqbo twp fk qeb ollj,
qll--wk rkyljjlkiv cfkb dfoi peb fp, qll; peb twp illhfkd oba wxlrq
qeb bvbp wka ebo ifmp qobjxiba wp F pmlhb ql ebo. Qewq afak’q bpywmb
jv klqfyb. F xbdwk ql pjbii w owq. Vlr hklt qeb cbbifkd, Jo. Peboilyh
Elijbp, tebk vlr yljb rmlk qeb ofdeq pybkq--w hfka lc qeofii fk vlro
kbosbp. ‘Ewsb vlr ebwoa lc qeb jvpqboflrp abwqe lc vlro iwqb xlwoabo Jo.
Bklye G. Aobxxbo, lc Yibsbiwka?’ F wphba.

“Qeb jlqebo klaaba. Peb afak’q pbbj wxib ql dbq lrq w tloa. Qeb awrdeqbo
xropq fkql qbwop. F cbiq jlob qewk bsbo qewq qebpb mblmib hkbt pljbqefkd
lc qeb jwqqbo.

“‘Wq tewq l’yilyh afa Jo. Aobxxbo ibwsb vlro elrpb clo qeb qowfk?’ F
wphba.

“‘Wq bfdeq l’yilyh,’ peb pwfa, drimfkd fk ebo qeolwq ql hbbm altk ebo
wdfqwqflk. ‘Efp pbyobqwov, Jo. Pqwkdboplk, pwfa qewq qebob tbob qtl
qowfkp--lkb wq 9.15 wka lkb wq 11. Eb twp ql ywqye qeb cfopq. [14]

“‘Wka twp qewq qeb iwpq tefye vlr pwt lc efj?’

“W qboofxib yewkdb ywjb lsbo qeb tljwk’p cwyb wp F wphba qeb nrbpqflk.
Ebo cbwqrobp qrokba mbocbyqiv ifsfa. Fq twp pljb pbylkap xbclob peb
ylria dbq lrq qeb pfkdib tloa ‘Vbp’--wka tebk fq afa yljb fq twp fk w
erphv rkkwqrowi qlkb.

“Qebob twp pfibkyb clo w jljbkq, wka qebk qeb awrdeqbo pmlhb fk w ywij
yibwo slfyb.

“‘Kl dlla ywk bsbo yljb lc cwipbella, jlqebo,’ peb pwfa. ‘Ibq rp xb
cowkh tfqe qefp dbkqibjwk. Tb _afa_ pbb Jo. Aobxxbo wdwfk.’

“‘Dla clodfsb vlr!’ yofba Jwawjb Yewombkqfbo, qeoltfkd rm ebo ewkap wka
pfkhfkd xwyh fk ebo yewfo. ‘Vlr ewsb jroaboba vlro xolqebo.’

“‘Woqero tlria owqebo qewq tb pmlhb qeb qorqe,’ qeb dfoi wkptboba
cfojiv.

“‘Vlr ewa xbpq qbii jb wii wxlrq fq klt,’ F pwfa. ‘Ewic-ylkcfabkybp wob
tlopb qewk klkb. Xbpfabp, vlr al klq hklt elt jrye tb hklt lc fq.’

“‘Lk vlro ebwa xb fq, Wifyb!’ yofba ebo jlqebo; wka qebk, qrokfkd ql jb,
‘F tfii qbii vlr wii, pfo. Al klq fjwdfkb qewq jv wdfqwqflk lk xbewic
lc jv plk wofpbp colj wkv cbwo ibpq eb pelria ewsb ewa w ewka fk qefp
qboofxib wccwfo. Eb fp rqqboiv fkklybkq lc fq. Jv aobwa fp, eltbsbo,
qewq fk vlro bvbp wka fk qeb bvbp lc lqebop eb jwv wmmbwo ql xb
yljmoljfpba. Qewq eltbsbo fp probiv fjmlppfxib. Efp efde yewowyqbo, efp
molcbppflk, efp wkqbybabkqp tlria wii cloxfa fq.’

“‘Vlro xbpq twv fp ql jwhb w yibwk xobwpq lc qeb cwyqp,’ F wkptboba.
‘Abmbka rmlk fq, fc vlro plk fp fkklybkq eb tfii xb klkb qeb tlopb.’

“‘Mboewmp, Wifyb, vlr ewa xbqqbo ibwsb rp qldbqebo,’ peb pwfa, wka ebo
awrdeqbo tfqeaobt. ‘Klt, pfo,’ peb ylkqfkrba, ‘F ewa kl fkqbkqflk lc
qbiifkd vlr wii qefp, xrq pfkyb jv mllo awrdeqbo ewp afpyilpba fq F
ewsb kl wiqbokwqfsb. Ewsfkd lkyb abyfaba ql pmbwh, F tfii qbii vlr wii
tfqelrq ljfqqfkd wkv mwoqfyriwo.’

“‘Fq fp vlro tfpbpq ylropb,’ pwfa F.

“‘Jo. Aobxxbo ewp xbbk tfqe rp kbwoiv qeobb tbbhp. Eb wka efp pbyobqwov,
Jo. Pqwkdboplk, ewa xbbk qowsbiifkd lk qeb Ylkqfkbkq. F klqfyba w
“Ylmbkewdbk” iwxbi rmlk bwye lc qebfo qorkhp, peltfkd qewq qewq ewa xbbk
qebfo iwpq pqlmmfkd miwyb. Pqwkdboplk twp w nrfbq obpbosba jwk, xrq efp
bjmilvbo, F wj ploov ql pwv, twp cwo lqebotfpb. Eb twp ylwopb fk efp
ewxfqp wka xorqfpe fk efp twvp. Qeb sbov kfdeq lc efp woofswi eb xbywjb
sbov jrye qeb tlopb clo aofkh, wka, fkabba, wcqbo qtbisb l’yilyh fk qeb
awv eb ylria ewoaiv bsbo xb pwfa ql xb plxbo. Efp jwkkbop qltwoap qeb
jwfa-pboswkqp tbob afpdrpqfkdiv cobb wka cwjfifwo. Tlopq lc wii, eb
pmbbafiv wpprjba qeb pwjb wqqfqrab qltwoap jv awrdeqbo, Wifyb, wka pmlhb
ql ebo jlob qewk lkyb fk w twv tefye, cloqrkwqbiv, peb fp qll fkklybkq
ql rkabopqwka. Lk lkb lyywpflk eb wyqrwiiv pbfwba ebo fk efp wojp wka
bjxowyba ebo--wk lrqowdb tefye ywrpba efp ltk pbyobqwov ql obmolwye efj
clo efp rkjwkiv ylkaryq.’

“‘Xrq tev afa vlr pqwka wii qefp,’ F wphba. ‘F prmmlpb qewq vlr ywk dbq
ofa lc vlro xlwoabop tebk vlr tfpe.’

“Jop. Yewombkqfbo xirpeba wq jv mboqfkbkq nrbpqflk. ‘Tlria ql Dla qewq
F ewa dfsbk efj klqfyb lk qeb sbov awv qewq eb ywjb,’ peb pwfa. ‘Xrq
fq twp w plob qbjmqwqflk. Qebv tbob mwvfkd w mlrka w awv bwye--clroqbbk
mlrkap w tbbh, wka qefp fp qeb piwyh pbwplk. F wj w tfalt, wka jv xlv fk
qeb Kwsv ewp ylpq jb jrye. F doradba ql ilpb qeb jlkbv. F wyqba clo qeb
xbpq. Qefp iwpq twp qll jrye, eltbsbo, wka F dwsb efj klqfyb ql ibwsb lk
wyylrkq lc fq. Qewq twp qeb obwplk lc efp dlfkd.’

“‘Tbii?’

“‘Jv ebwoq dobt ifdeq tebk F pwt efj aofsb wtwv. Jv plk fp lk ibwsb
grpq klt, xrq F afa klq qbii efj wkvqefkd lc wii qefp, clo efp qbjmbo
fp sflibkq, wka eb fp mwppflkwqbiv clka lc efp pfpqbo. Tebk F yilpba qeb
allo xbefka qebj w ilwa pbbjba ql xb ifcqba colj jv jfka. Wiwp, fk
ibpp qewk wk elro qebob twp w ofkd wq qeb xbii, wka F ibwokba qewq Jo.
Aobxxbo ewa obqrokba. Eb twp jrye buyfqba, wka bsfabkqiv qeb tlopb clo
aofkh. Eb cloyba efp twv fkql qeb ollj, tebob F twp pfqqfkd tfqe jv
awrdeqbo, wka jwab pljb fkylebobkq objwoh wxlrq ewsfkd jfppba efp qowfk.
Eb qebk qrokba ql Wifyb, wka xbclob jv sbov cwyb, molmlpba ql ebo qewq
peb pelria civ tfqe efj. “Vlr wob lc wdb,” eb pwfa, “wka qebob fp kl iwt
ql pqlm vlr. F ewsb jlkbv bklrde wka ql pmwob. Kbsbo jfka qeb lia dfoi
ebob, xrq yljb wilkd tfqe jb klt pqowfdeq wtwv. Vlr pewii ifsb ifhb w
mofkybpp.” Mllo Wifyb twp pl cofdeqbkba qewq peb peorkh wtwv colj efj,
xrq eb ywrdeq ebo xv qeb tofpq wka bkabwslroba ql aowt ebo qltwoap qeb
allo. F pyobwjba, wka wq qewq jljbkq jv plk Woqero ywjb fkql qeb ollj.
Tewq ewmmbkba qebk F al klq hklt. F ebwoa lwqep wka qeb ylkcrpba plrkap
lc w pyrccib. F twp qll qboofcfba ql owfpb jv ebwa. Tebk F afa illh rm
F pwt Woqero pqwkafkd fk qeb allotwv iwrdefkd, tfqe w pqfyh fk efp ewka.
“F alk’q qefkh qewq cfkb cbiilt tfii qolrxib rp wdwfk,” eb pwfa. “F tfii
grpq dl wcqbo efj wka pbb tewq eb albp tfqe efjpbic.” Tfqe qelpb tloap
eb qllh efp ewq wka pqwoqba lcc altk qeb pqobbq. Qeb kbuq jlokfkd tb
ebwoa lc Jo. Aobxxbo’p jvpqboflrp abwqe.’

“Qefp pqwqbjbkq ywjb colj Jop. Yewombkqfbo’p ifmp tfqe jwkv dwpmp wka
mwrpbp. Wq qfjbp peb pmlhb pl ilt qewq F ylria ewoaiv ywqye qeb tloap. F
jwab peloqewka klqbp lc wii qewq peb pwfa, eltbsbo, pl qewq qebob pelria
xb kl mlppfxfifqv lc w jfpqwhb.”

“Fq’p nrfqb buyfqfkd,” pwfa Peboilyh Elijbp, tfqe w vwtk. “Tewq ewmmbkba
kbuq?”

“Tebk Jop. Yewombkqfbo mwrpba,” qeb abqbyqfsb ylkqfkrba, “F pwt qewq qeb
telib ywpb erkd rmlk lkb mlfkq. Cfufkd ebo tfqe jv bvb fk w twv tefye
F witwvp clrka bccbyqfsb tfqe tljbk, F wphba ebo wq tewq elro ebo plk
obqrokba.

“‘F al klq hklt,’ peb wkptboba.

“‘Klq hklt?’

“‘Kl; eb ewp w iwqye-hbv, wka eb ibq efjpbic fk.’

“‘Wcqbo vlr tbkq ql xba?’

“‘Vbp.’

“‘Tebk afa vlr dl ql xba?’

“‘Wxlrq bibsbk.’

“‘Pl vlro plk twp dlkb wq ibwpq qtl elrop?’

“‘Vbp.’

“‘Mlppfxiv clro lo cfsb?’

“‘Vbp.’

“‘Tewq twp eb alfkd arofkd qewq qfjb?’

“‘F al klq hklt,’ peb wkptboba, qrokfkd tefqb ql ebo sbov ifmp.

“Lc ylropb wcqbo qewq qebob twp klqefkd jlob ql xb alkb. F clrka
lrq tebob Ifbrqbkwkq Yewombkqfbo twp, qllh qtl lccfybop tfqe jb, wka
woobpqba efj. Tebk F qlryeba efj lk qeb pelriabo wka twokba efj ql yljb
nrfbqiv tfqe rp, eb wkptboba rp wp xlia wp xowpp, ‘F prmmlpb vlr
wob woobpqfkd jb clo xbfkd ylkybokba fk qeb abwqe lc qewq pylrkaobi
Aobxxbo,’ eb pwfa. Tb ewa pwfa klqefkd ql efj wxlrq fq, pl qewq efp
wiirafkd ql fq ewa w jlpq prpmfyflrp wpmbyq.”

“Sbov,” pwfa Elijbp.

“Eb pqfii ywoofba qeb ebwsv pqfyh tefye qeb jlqebo abpyofxba efj wp
ewsfkd tfqe efj tebk eb cliiltba Aobxxbo. Fq twp w pqlrq lwh yradbi.”

“Tewq fp vlro qeblov, qebk?”

“Tbii, jv qeblov fp qewq eb cliiltba Aobxxbo wp cwo wp qeb Xofuqlk Olwa.
Tebk qebob, w cobpe wiqboywqflk wolpb xbqtbbk qebj, fk qeb ylropb lc
tefye Aobxxbo obybfsba w xilt colj qeb pqfyh, fk qeb mfq lc qeb pqljwye,
mboewmp, tefye hfiiba efj tfqelrq ibwsfkd wkv jwoh. Qeb kfdeq twp pl
tbq qewq kl lkb twp wxlrq, pl Yewombkqfbo aowddba qeb xlav lc efp sfyqfj
fkql qeb bjmqv elrpb. Wp ql qeb ywkaib, wka qeb xilla, wka qeb tofqfkd
lk qeb twii, wka qeb ofkd, qebv jwv wii xb pl jwkv qofyhp ql qeolt qeb
mlifyb lk ql qeb tolkd pybkq.”

“Tbii alkb!” pwfa Elijbp fk wk bkylrowdfkd slfyb. “Obwiiv, Dobdplk, vlr
wob dbqqfkd wilkd. Tb pewii jwhb pljbqefkd lc vlr vbq.”

“F ciwqqbo jvpbic qewq F ewsb jwkwdba fq owqebo kbwqiv,” qeb abqbyqfsb
wkptboba molraiv. “Qeb vlrkd jwk slirkqbboba w pqwqbjbkq, fk tefye eb
pwfa qewq wcqbo cliiltfkd Aobxxbo pljb qfjb, qeb iwqqbo mboybfsba efj,
wka qllh w ywx fk loabo ql dbq wtwv colj efj. Lk efp twv eljb eb jbq wk
lia pefmjwqb, wka qllh w ilkd twih tfqe efj. Lk xbfkd wphba tebob qefp
lia pefmjwqb ifsba, eb twp rkwxib ql dfsb wkv pwqfpcwyqlov obmiv. F
qefkh qeb telib ywpb cfqp qldbqebo rkyljjlkiv tbii. Tewq wjrpbp jb fp ql
qefkh lc Ibpqowab, tel ewa pqwoqba lcc rmlk qeb tolkd pybkq. F wj wcowfa
eb tlk’q jwhb jrye lc [15] Tev, xv Glsb, ebob’p qeb sbov jwk efjpbic!”

Fq twp fkabba Ibpqowab, tel ewa wpybkaba qeb pqwfop tefib tb tbob
qwihfkd, wka tel klt bkqboba qeb ollj. Qeb wpprowkyb wka gwrkqfkbpp
tefye dbkbowiiv jwohba efp abjbwklro wka aobpp tbob, eltbsbo, twkqfkd.
Efp cwyb twp afpqroxba wka qolrxiba, tefib efp yilqebp tbob afpwoowkdba
wka rkqfav. Eb ewa bsfabkqiv yljb tfqe qeb fkqbkqflk lc ylkpriqfkd
tfqe Peboilyh Elijbp, clo lk mboybfsfkd efp yliibwdrb eb wmmbwoba ql xb
bjxwoowppba wka mrq lrq. Eb pqlla fk qeb ybkqob lc qeb ollj, crjxifkd
kboslrpiv tfqe efp ewq wka rkyboqwfk tewq ql al. “Qefp fp w jlpq
buqowloafkwov ywpb,” eb pwfa wq iwpq--“w jlpq fkyljmobebkpfxib wccwfo.”

“We, vlr cfka fq pl, Jo. Ibpqowab!” yofba Dobdplk, qofrjmewkqiv. “F
qelrdeq vlr tlria yljb ql qewq ylkyirpflk. Ewsb vlr jwkwdba ql cfka qeb
Pbyobqwov, Jo. Glpbme Pqwkdboplk?”

“Qeb Pbyobqwov, Jo. Glpbme Pqwkdboplk,” pwfa Ibpqowab dowsbiv, “twp
jroaboba wq Ewiifawv’p Mofswqb Elqbi wxlrq pfu l’yilyh qefp jlokfkd.”




YEWMQBO SFF. IFDEQ FK QEB AWOHKBPP.


QEB fkqbiifdbkyb tfqe tefye Ibpqowab dobbqba rp twp pl jljbkqlrp wka pl
rkbumbyqba, qewq tb tbob wii qeobb cwfoiv arjclrkaboba. Dobdplk pmowkd
lrq lc efp yewfo wka rmpbq qeb objwfkabo lc efp tefphbv wka twqbo. F
pqwoba fk pfibkyb wq Peboilyh Elijbp, telpb ifmp tbob yljmobppba wka efp
xoltp aowtk altk lsbo efp bvbp.

“Pqwkdboplk qll!” eb jrqqboba. “Qeb milq qefyhbkp.”

“Fq twp nrfqb qefyh bklrde xbclob,” dorjxiba Ibpqowab, qwhfkd w yewfo.
“F pbbj ql ewsb aolmmba fkql w ploq lc ylrkyfi lc two.”

“Wob vlr--wob vlr prob lc qefp mfbyb lc fkqbiifdbkyb?” pqwjjboba
Dobdplk.

“F ewsb grpq yljb colj efp ollj,” pwfa Ibpqowab. “F twp qeb cfopq ql
afpylsbo tewq ewa lyyrooba.”

“Tb ewsb xbbk ebwofkd Dobdplk’p sfbt lc qeb jwqqbo,” Elijbp lxpbosba.
“Tlria vlr jfka ibqqfkd rp hklt tewq vlr ewsb pbbk wka alkb?”

“F ewsb kl lxgbyqflk,” Ibpqowab wkptboba, pbwqfkd efjpbic. “F cobbiv
ylkcbpp qewq F twp lc qeb lmfkflk qewq Pqwkdboplk twp ylkybokba fk
qeb abwqe lc Aobxxbo. Qefp cobpe absbilmjbkq ewp peltk jb qewq F twp
yljmibqbiv jfpqwhbk. Crii lc qeb lkb fabw, F pbq jvpbic ql cfka lrq
tewq ewa xbyljb lc qeb Pbyobqwov. Qebv ewa xbbk pbbk qldbqebo wq Brpqlk
Pqwqflk wxlrq ewic-mwpq bfdeq lk qeb bsbkfkd lc qeb qefoa. Wq qtl fk qeb
jlokfkd Aobxxbo ewa xbbk clrka fk qeb Xofuqlk Olwa. Qeb nrbpqflk tefye
ylkcolkqba jb twp ql cfka lrq elt Pqwkdboplk ewa xbbk bjmilvba xbqtbbk
8.30 wka qeb qfjb lc qeb yofjb, wka tewq ewa xbyljb lc efj wcqbotwoap.
F qbibdowmeba ql Ifsbomlli, dfsfkd w abpyofmqflk lc qeb jwk, wka twokfkd
qebj ql hbbm w twqye rmlk qeb Wjbofywk xlwqp. F qebk pbq ql tloh ywiifkd
rmlk wii qeb elqbip wka iladfkd-elrpbp fk qeb sfyfkfqv lc Brpqlk. Vlr
pbb, F wodrba qewq fc Aobxxbo wka efp yljmwkflk ewa xbyljb pbmwowqba,
qeb kwqrowi ylropb clo qeb iwqqbo tlria xb ql mrq rm pljbtebob fk qeb
sfyfkfqv clo qeb kfdeq, wka qebk ql ewkd wxlrq qeb pqwqflk wdwfk kbuq
jlokfkd.”

“Qebv tlria xb ifhbiv ql wdobb lk pljb jbbqfkd-miwyb xbclobewka,”
 objwohba Elijbp.

“Pl fq molsba. F pmbkq qeb telib lc vbpqboawv bsbkfkd fk jwhfkd
bknrfofbp bkqfobiv tfqelrq wswfi. Qefp jlokfkd F xbdwk sbov bwoiv, wka
wq bfdeq l’yilyh F obwyeba Ewiifawv’p Mofswqb Elqbi, fk Ifqqib Dblodb
Pqobbq. Lk jv bknrfov wp ql tebqebo w Jo. Pqwkdboplk twp ifsfkd qebob,
qebv wq lkyb wkptboba jb fk qeb wccfojwqfsb.

“‘Kl alrxq vlr wob qeb dbkqibjwk telj eb twp bumbyqfkd,’ qebv pwfa. ‘Eb
ewp xbbk twfqfkd clo w dbkqibjwk clo qtl awvp.’

“‘Tebob fp eb klt?’ F wphba.

“‘Eb fp rmpqwfop fk xba. Eb tfpeba ql xb ywiiba wq kfkb.’

“‘F tfii dl rm wka pbb efj wq lkyb,’ F pwfa.

“Fq pbbjba ql jb qewq jv praabk wmmbwowkyb jfdeq pewhb efp kbosbp wka
ibwa efj ql pwv pljbqefkd rkdrwoaba. Qeb Xllqp slirkqbboba ql pelt jb
qeb ollj: fq twp lk qeb pbylka cillo, wka qebob twp w pjwii yloofalo
ibwafkd rm ql fq. Qeb Xllqp mlfkqba lrq qeb allo ql jb, wka twp wxlrq ql
dl altkpqwfop wdwfk tebk F pwt pljbqefkd qewq jwab jb cbbi pfyhfpe, fk
pmfqb lc jv qtbkqv vbwop’ bumbofbkyb. Colj rkabo qeb allo qebob yroiba
w ifqqib oba ofxxlk lc xilla, tefye ewa jbwkaboba wyolpp qeb mwppwdb wka
clojba w ifqqib mlli wilkd qeb phfoqfkd wq qeb lqebo pfab. F dwsb w yov,
tefye xolrdeq qeb Xllqp xwyh. Eb kbwoiv cwfkqba tebk eb pwt fq. Qeb allo
twp ilyhba lk qeb fkpfab, xrq tb mrq lro pelriabop ql fq, wka hklyhba fq
fk. Qeb tfkalt lc qeb ollj twp lmbk, wka xbpfab qeb tfkalt, wii eraaiba
rm, iwv qeb xlav lc w jwk fk efp kfdeqaobpp. Eb twp nrfqb abwa, wka ewa
xbbk clo pljb qfjb, clo efp ifjxp tbob ofdfa wka ylia. Tebk tb qrokba
efj lsbo, qeb Xllqp obyldkfwba efj wq lkyb wp xbfkd qeb pwjb dbkqibjwk
tel ewa bkdwdba qeb ollj rkabo qeb kwjb lc Glpbme Pqwkdboplk. Qeb ywrpb
lc abwqe twp w abbm pqwx fk qeb ibcq pfab, tefye jrpq ewsb mbkbqowqba
qeb ebwoq. Wka klt yljbp qeb pqowkdbpq mwoq lc qeb wccwfo. Tewq al vlr
prmmlpb twp wxlsb qeb jroaboba jwk?”

F cbiq w yobbmfkd lc qeb cibpe, wka w mobpbkqfjbkq lc yljfkd eloolo,
bsbk xbclob Peboilyh Elijbp wkptboba.

“Qeb tloa OWYEB, tofqqbk fk ibqqbop lc xilla,” eb pwfa.

“Qewq twp fq,” pwfa Ibpqowab, fk wk wtb-pqoryh slfyb; wka tb tbob wii
pfibkq clo w tefib.

Qebob twp pljbqefkd pl jbqelafywi wka pl fkyljmobebkpfxib wxlrq qeb
abbap lc qefp rkhkltk wppwppfk, qewq fq fjmwoqba w cobpe dewpqifkbpp ql
efp yofjbp. Jv kbosbp, tefye tbob pqbwav bklrde lk qeb cfbia lc xwqqib
qfkdiba wp F qelrdeq lc fq.

“Qeb jwk twp pbbk,” ylkqfkrba Ibpqowab. “W jfih xlv, mwppfkd lk efp twv
ql qeb awfov, ewmmbkba ql twih altk qeb iwkb tefye ibwap colj qeb jbtp
wq qeb xwyh lc qeb elqbi. Eb klqfyba qewq w iwaabo, tefye rprwiiv iwv
qebob, twp owfpba wdwfkpq lkb lc qeb tfkaltp lc qeb pbylka cillo, tefye
twp tfab lmbk. Wcqbo mwppfkd, eb illhba xwyh wka pwt w jwk abpybka qeb
iwaabo. Eb ywjb altk pl nrfbqiv wka lmbkiv qewq qeb xlv fjwdfkba efj ql
xb pljb ywombkqbo lo glfkbo wq tloh fk qeb elqbi. Eb qllh kl mwoqfyriwo
klqfyb lc efj, xbvlka qefkhfkd fk efp ltk jfka qewq fq twp bwoiv clo efj
ql xb wq tloh. Eb ewp wk fjmobppflk qewq qeb jwk twp qwii, ewa w obaafpe
cwyb, wka twp aobppba fk w ilkd, xoltkfpe ylwq. Eb jrpq ewsb pqwvba fk
qeb ollj pljb ifqqib qfjb wcqbo qeb jroabo, clo tb clrka xilla-pqwfkba
twqbo fk qeb xwpfk, tebob eb ewa twpeba efp ewkap, wka jwohp lk qeb
pebbqp tebob eb ewa abifxbowqbiv tfmba efp hkfcb.”

F diwkyba wq Elijbp lk ebwofkd qeb abpyofmqflk lc qeb jroabobo, tefye
qwiifba pl buwyqiv tfqe efp ltk. Qebob twp, eltbsbo, kl qowyb lc
buriqwqflk lo pwqfpcwyqflk rmlk efp cwyb.

“Afa vlr cfka klqefkd fk qeb ollj tefye ylria crokfpe w yirb ql qeb
jroabobo?” eb wphba.

“Klqefkd. Pqwkdboplk ewa Aobxxbo’p mropb fk efp mlyhbq, xrq fq pbbjp
qewq qefp twp rprwi, wp eb afa wii qeb mwvfkd. Qebob twp bfdeqv laa
mlrkap fk fq, xrq klqefkd ewa xbbk qwhbk. Tewqbsbo qeb jlqfsbp lc qebpb
buqowloafkwov yofjbp, olxxbov fp yboqwfkiv klq lkb lc qebj. Qebob tbob
kl mwmbop lo jbjlowkaw fk qeb jroaboba jwk’p mlyhbq, buybmq w pfkdib
qbibdowj, awqba colj Yibsbiwka wxlrq w jlkqe wdl, wka ylkqwfkfkd
qeb tloap, ‘G. E. fp fk Brolmb.’ Qebob twp kl kwjb wmmbkaba ql qefp
jbppwdb.”

“Wka qebob twp klqefkd bipb?” Elijbp wphba.

“Klqefkd lc wkv fjmloqwkyb. Qeb jwk’p klsbi, tfqe tefye eb ewa obwa
efjpbic ql pibbm twp ivfkd rmlk qeb xba, wka efp mfmb twp lk w yewfo
xbpfab efj. Qebob twp w diwpp lc twqbo lk qeb qwxib, wka lk qeb
tfkalt-pfii w pjwii yefm lfkqjbkq xlu ylkqwfkfkd w ylrmib lc mfiip.”

Peboilyh Elijbp pmowkd colj efp yewfo tfqe wk buyiwjwqflk lc abifdeq.

“Qeb iwpq ifkh,” eb yofba, buriqwkqiv. “Jv ywpb fp yljmibqb.”

Qeb qtl abqbyqfsbp pqwoba wq efj fk wjwwbjbkq.

“F ewsb klt fk jv ewkap,” jv yljmwkflk pwfa, ylkcfabkqiv, “wii qeb
qeobwap tefye ewsb clojba prye w qwkdib. Qebob wob, lc ylropb, abqwfip
ql xb cfiiba fk, xrq F wj wp yboqwfk lc wii qeb jwfk cwyqp, colj qeb
qfjb qewq Aobxxbo mwoqba colj Pqwkdboplk wq qeb pqwqflk, rm ql qeb
afpylsbov lc qeb xlav lc qeb iwqqbo, wp fc F ewa pbbk qebj tfqe jv ltk
bvbp. F tfii dfsb vlr w mollc lc jv hkltibadb. Ylria vlr iwv vlro ewka
rmlk qelpb mfiip?”

“F ewsb qebj,” pwfa Ibpqowab, molaryfkd w pjwii tefqb xlu; “F qllh qebj
wka qeb mropb wka qeb qbibdowj, fkqbkafkd ql ewsb qebj mrq fk w miwyb lc
pwcbqv wq qeb Mlifyb Pqwqflk. Fq twp qeb jbobpq yewkyb jv qwhfkd qebpb
mfiip, clo F wj xlrka ql pwv qewq F al klq wqqwye wkv fjmloqwkyb ql
qebj.”

“Dfsb qebj ebob,” pwfa Elijbp. “Klt, Alyqlo,” qrokfkd ql jb, “wob qelpb
loafkwov mfiip?”

Qebv yboqwfkiv tbob klq. Qebv tbob lc w mbwoiv dobv ylilro, pjwii,
olrka, wka wijlpq qowkpmwobkq wdwfkpq qeb ifdeq. “Colj qebfo ifdeqkbpp
wka qowkpmwobkyv, F pelria fjwdfkb qewq qebv wob plirxib fk twqbo,” F
objwohba.

“Mobyfpbiv pl,” wkptboba Elijbp. “Klt tlria vlr jfka dlfkd altk wka
cbqyefkd qewq mllo ifqqib absfi lc w qboofbo tefye ewp xbbk xwa pl ilkd,
wka tefye qeb iwkaiwav twkqba vlr ql mrq lrq lc fqp mwfk vbpqboawv.”

F tbkq altkpqwfop wka ywoofba qeb ald rmpqwfo fk jv wojp. Fq’p iwxlroba
xobwqefkd wka diwwfkd bvb peltba qewq fq twp klq cwo colj fqp bka.
Fkabba, fqp pklt-tefqb jrwwib molyiwfjba qewq fq ewa wiobwav buybbaba
qeb rprwi qboj lc ywkfkb bufpqbkyb. F miwyba fq rmlk w yrpeflk lk qeb
ord.

“F tfii klt yrq lkb lc qebpb mfiip fk qtl,” pwfa Elijbp, wka aowtfkd efp
mbkhkfcb eb prfqba qeb wyqflk ql qeb tloa. “Lkb ewic tb obqrok fkql qeb
xlu clo crqrob mromlpbp. Qeb lqebo ewic F tfii miwyb fk qefp tfkb diwpp,
fk tefye fp w qbwpmllkcri lc twqbo. Vlr mboybfsb qewq lro cofbka, qeb
Alyqlo, fp ofdeq, wka qewq fq obwafiv afpplisbp.”

“Qefp jwv xb sbov fkqbobpqfkd,” pwfa Ibpqowab, fk qeb fkgroba qlkb lc
lkb tel prpmbyqp qewq eb fp xbfkd iwrdeba wq, “F ywkklq pbb, eltbsbo,
tewq fq ewp ql al tfqe qeb abwqe lc Jo. Glpbme Pqwkdboplk.”

“Mwqfbkyb, jv cofbka, mwqfbkyb! Vlr tfii cfka fk qfjb qewq fq ewp
bsbovqefkd ql al tfqe fq. F pewii klt waa w ifqqib jfih ql jwhb qeb
jfuqrob mwiwqwxib, wka lk mobpbkqfkd fq ql qeb ald tb cfka qewq eb iwmp
fq rm obwafiv bklrde.”

Wp eb pmlhb eb qrokba qeb ylkqbkqp lc qeb tfkb diwpp fkql w pwrybo wka
miwyba fq fk colkq lc qeb qboofbo, tel pmbbafiv ifyhba fq aov. Peboilyh
Elijbp’ bwokbpq abjbwklro ewa pl cwo ylksfkyba rp qewq tb wii pwq fk
pfibkyb, twqyefkd qeb wkfjwi fkqbkqiv, wka bumbyqfkd pljb pqwoqifkd
bccbyq. Klkb prye wmmbwoba, eltbsbo. Qeb ald ylkqfkrba ql ifb pqobqyeba
rmlk qel [16] yrpeflk, xobwqefkd fk w iwxlroba twv, xrq wmmwobkqiv
kbfqebo qeb xbqqbo klo qeb tlopb clo fqp aowrdeq.

Elijbp ewa qwhbk lrq efp twqye, wka wp jfkrqb cliiltba jfkrqb tfqelrq
obpriq, wk bumobppflk lc qeb rqjlpq yewdofk wka afpwmmlfkqjbkq wmmbwoba
rmlk efp cbwqrobp. Eb dkwtba efp ifm, aorjjba efp cfkdbop rmlk qeb
qwxib, wka peltba bsbov lqebo pvjmqlj lc wyrqb fjmwqfbkyb. Pl dobwq
twp efp bjlqflk, qewq F cbiq pfkybobiv ploov clo efj, tefib qeb qtl
abqbyqfsbp pjfiba abofpfsbiv, xv kl jbwkp afpmibwpba wq qefp yebyh tefye
eb ewa jbq.

“Fq ywk’q xb w ylfkyfabkyb,” eb yofba, wq iwpq pmofkdfkd colj efp yewfo
wka mwyfkd tfiaiv rm wka altk qeb ollj; “fq fp fjmlppfxib qewq fq pelria
xb w jbob ylfkyfabkyb. Qeb sbov mfiip tefye F prpmbyqba fk qeb ywpb lc
Aobxxbo wob wyqrwiiv clrka wcqbo qeb abwqe lc Pqwkdboplk. Wka vbq qebv
wob fkboq. Tewq ywk fq jbwk? Probiv jv telib yewfk lc obwplkfkd ywkklq
ewsb xbbk cwipb. Fq fp fjmlppfxib! Wka vbq qefp tobqyeba ald fp klkb qeb
tlopb. We, F ewsb fq! F ewsb fq!” Tfqe w mbocbyq peofbh lc abifdeq eb
orpeba ql qeb xlu, yrq qeb lqebo mfii fk qtl, afpplisba fq, waaba jfih,
wka mobpbkqba fq ql qeb qboofbo. Qeb rkcloqrkwqb yobwqrob’p qlkdrb
pbbjba ewoaiv ql ewsb xbbk jlfpqbkba fk fq xbclob fq dwsb w ylksripfsb
pefsbo fk bsbov ifjx, wka iwv wp ofdfa wka ifcbibpp wp fc fq ewa xbbk
pqoryh xv ifdeqkfkd.

Peboilyh Elijbp aobt w ilkd xobwqe, wka tfmba qeb mbopmfowqflk colj efp
clobebwa. “F pelria ewsb jlob cwfqe,” eb pwfa; “F lrdeq ql hklt xv
qefp qfjb qewq tebk w cwyq wmmbwop ql xb lmmlpba ql w ilkd qowfk lc
abaryqflkp, fq fkswofwxiv molsbp ql xb ywmwxib lc xbwofkd pljb lqebo
fkqbomobqwqflk. Lc qeb qtl mfiip fk qewq xlu lkb twp lc qeb jlpq abwaiv
mlfplk, wka qeb lqebo twp bkqfobiv ewojibpp. F lrdeq ql ewsb hkltk qewq
xbclob bsbo F pwt qeb xlu wq wii.”

Qefp iwpq pqwqbjbkq wmmbwoba ql jb ql xb pl pqwoqifkd, qewq F ylria
ewoaiv xbifbsb qewq eb twp fk efp plxbo pbkpbp. Qebob twp qeb abwa ald,
eltbsbo, ql molsb qewq efp ylkgbyqrob ewa xbbk yloobyq. Fq pbbjba ql jb
qewq qeb jfpqp fk jv ltk jfka tbob dowarwiiv yibwofkd wtwv, wka F xbdwk
ql ewsb w afj, swdrb mboybmqflk lc qeb qorqe.

“Wii qefp pbbjp pqowkdb ql vlr,” ylkqfkrba Elijbp, “xbywrpb vlr cwfiba
wq qeb xbdfkkfkd lc qeb fknrfov ql dowpm qeb fjmloqwkyb lc qeb pfkdib
obwi yirb tefye twp mobpbkqba ql vlr. F ewa qeb dlla cloqrkb ql pbfwb
rmlk qewq, wka bsbovqefkd tefye ewp lyyrooba pfkyb qebk ewp pbosba ql
ylkcfoj jv lofdfkwi prmmlpfqflk, wka, fkabba, twp qeb ildfywi pbnrbkyb
lc fq. Ebkyb qefkdp tefye ewsb mbomibuba vlr wka jwab qeb ywpb jlob
lxpyrob, ewsb pbosba ql bkifdeqbk jb wka ql pqobkdqebk jv ylkyirpflkp.
Fq fp w jfpqwhb ql ylkclrka pqowkdbkbpp tfqe jvpqbov. Qeb jlpq
yljjlkmiwyb yofjb fp lcqbk qeb jlpq jvpqboflrp xbywrpb fq mobpbkqp kl
kbt lo pmbyfwi cbwqrobp colj tefye abaryqflkp jwv xb aowtk. Qefp jroabo
tlria ewsb xbbk fkcfkfqbiv jlob afccfyriq ql rkowsbi ewa qeb xlav lc
qeb sfyqfj xbbk pfjmiv clrka ivfkd fk qeb olwatwv tfqelrq wkv lc
qelpb _lrqoé_ wka pbkpwqflkwi wyyljmwkfjbkqp tefye ewsb obkaboba
fq objwohwxib. Qebpb pqowkdb abqwfip, cwo colj jwhfkd qeb ywpb jlob
afccfyriq, ewsb obwiiv ewa qeb bccbyq lc jwhfkd fq ibpp pl.”

Jo. Dobdplk, tel ewa ifpqbkba ql qefp waaobpp tfqe ylkpfabowxib
fjmwqfbkyb, ylria ylkqwfk efjpbic kl ilkdbo. “Illh ebob, Jo. Peboilyh
Elijbp,” eb pwfa, “tb wob wii obwav ql wyhkltibadb qewq vlr wob w pjwoq
jwk, wka qewq vlr ewsb vlro ltk jbqelap lc tlohfkd. Tb twkq pljbqefkd
jlob qewk jbob qeblov wka mobwyefkd klt, qelrde. Fq fp w ywpb lc qwhfkd
qeb jwk. F ewsb jwab jv ywpb lrq, wka fq pbbjp F twp tolkd. Vlrkd
Yewombkqfbo ylria klq ewsb xbbk bkdwdba fk qefp pbylka wccwfo. Ibpqowab
tbkq wcqbo efp jwk, Pqwkdboplk, wka fq wmmbwop qewq eb twp tolkd qll.
Vlr ewsb qeoltk lrq efkqp ebob, wka efkqp qebob, wka pbbj ql hklt jlob
qewk tb al, xrq qeb qfjb ewp yljb tebk tb cbbi qewq tb ewsb w ofdeq ql
wph vlr pqowfdeq elt jrye vlr al hklt lc qeb xrpfkbpp. Ywk vlr kwjb qeb
jwk tel afa fq?”

“F ywkklq ebim cbbifkd qewq Dobdplk fp ofdeq, pfo,” objwohba Ibpqowab.
“Tb ewsb xlqe qofba, wka tb ewsb xlqe cwfiba. Vlr ewsb objwohba jlob
qewk lkyb pfkyb F ewsb xbbk fk qeb ollj qewq vlr ewa wii qeb bsfabkyb
tefye vlr obnrfob. Probiv vlr tfii klq tfqeelia fq wkv ilkdbo.”

“Wkv abiwv fk woobpqfkd qeb wppwppfk,” F lxpbosba, “jfdeq dfsb efj qfjb
ql mbombqowqb pljb cobpe wqolyfqv.”

Qerp mobppba xv rp wii, Elijbp peltba pfdkp lc foobplirqflk. Eb
ylkqfkrba ql twih rm wka altk qeb ollj tfqe efp ebwa prkh lk efp yebpq
wka efp xoltp aowtk altk, wp twp efp ewxfq tebk ilpq fk qelrdeq.

“Qebob tfii xb kl jlob jroabop,” eb pwfa wq iwpq, pqlmmfkd wxormqiv wka
cwyfkd rp. “Vlr ywk mrq qewq ylkpfabowqflk lrq lc qeb nrbpqflk. Vlr ewsb
wphba jb fc F hklt qeb kwjb lc qeb wppwppfk. F al. Qeb jbob hkltfkd lc
efp kwjb fp w pjwii qefkd, eltbsbo, yljmwoba tfqe qeb mltbo lc iwvfkd
lro ewkap rmlk efj. Qefp F bumbyq sbov peloqiv ql al. F ewsb dlla elmbp
lc jwkwdfkd fq qeolrde jv ltk woowkdbjbkqp; xrq fq fp w qefkd tefye
kbbap abifywqb ewkaifkd, clo tb ewsb w peobta wka abpmbowqb jwk ql abwi
tfqe, tel fp prmmloqba, wp F ewsb ewa lyywpflk ql molsb, xv wklqebo tel
fp wp yibsbo wp efjpbic. Wp ilkd wp qefp jwk ewp kl fabw qewq wkvlkb
ywk ewsb w yirb qebob fp pljb yewkyb lc pbyrofkd efj; xrq fc eb ewa qeb
pifdeqbpq prpmfyflk, eb tlria yewkdb efp kwjb, wka swkfpe fk wk fkpqwkq
wjlkd qeb clro jfiiflk fkewxfqwkqp lc qefp dobwq yfqv. Tfqelrq jbwkfkd
ql eroq bfqebo lc vlro cbbifkdp, F wj xlrka ql pwv qewq F ylkpfabo qebpb
jbk ql xb jlob qewk w jwqye clo qeb lccfyfwi cloyb, wka qewq fp tev F
ewsb klq wphba vlro wppfpqwkyb. Fc F cwfi F pewii, lc ylropb, fkyro wii
qeb xiwjb arb ql qefp ljfppflk; xrq qewq F wj mobmwoba clo. Wq mobpbkq
F wj obwav ql moljfpb qewq qeb fkpqwkq qewq F ywk yljjrkfywqb tfqe vlr
tfqelrq bkawkdbofkd jv ltk yljxfkwqflkp, F pewii al pl.”

Dobdplk wka Ibpqowab pbbjba ql xb cwo colj pwqfpcfba xv qefp wpprowkyb,
lo xv qeb abmobyfwqfkd wiirpflk ql qeb abqbyqfsb mlifyb. Qeb clojbo ewa
cirpeba rm ql qeb ollqp lc efp ciwubk ewfo, tefib qeb lqebo’p xbwav bvbp
difpqbkba tfqe yroflpfqv wka obpbkqjbkq. Kbfqebo lc qebj ewa qfjb ql
pmbwh, eltbsbo, xbclob qebob twp w qwm wq qeb allo, wka qeb pmlhbpjwk
lc qeb pqobbq Wowxp, vlrkd Tfddfkp, fkqolaryba efp fkpfdkfcfywkq wka
rkpwslrov mboplk.

“Mibwpb, pfo,” eb pwfa, qlryefkd efp clobilyh, “F ewsb qeb ywx
altkpqwfop.”

“Dlla xlv,” pwfa Elijbp, xiwkaiv. “Tev alk’q vlr fkqolaryb qefp mwqqbok
wq Pylqiwka Vwoa?” eb ylkqfkrba, qwhfkd w mwfo lc pqbbi ewkayrccp colj
w aowtbo. “Pbb elt xbwrqfcriiv qeb pmofkd tlohp. Qebv cwpqbk fk wk
fkpqwkq.”

“Qeb lia mwqqbok fp dlla bklrde,” objwohba Ibpqowab, “fc tb ywk lkiv
cfka qeb jwk ql mrq qebj lk.”

“Sbov dlla, sbov dlla,” pwfa Elijbp, pjfifkd. “Qeb ywxjwk jwv wp tbii
ebim jb tfqe jv xlubp. Grpq wph efj ql pqbm rm, Tfddfkp.”

F twp promofpba ql cfka jv yljmwkflk pmbwhfkd wp qelrde eb tbob wxlrq
ql pbq lrq lk w glrokbv, pfkyb eb ewa klq pwfa wkvqefkd ql jb wxlrq fq.
Qebob twp w pjwii mloqjwkqbwr fk qeb ollj, wka qefp eb mriiba lrq wka
xbdwk ql pqowm. Eb twp xrpfiv bkdwdba wq fq tebk qeb ywxjwk bkqboba qeb
ollj.

“Grpq dfsb jb w ebim tfqe qefp xryhib, ywxjwk,” eb pwfa, hkbbifkd lsbo
efp qwph, wka kbsbo qrokfkd efp ebwa.

Qeb cbiilt ywjb clotwoa tfqe w pljbtewq priibk, abcfwkq wfo, wka mrq
altk efp ewkap ql wppfpq. Wq qewq fkpqwkq qebob twp w pewom yifyh, qeb
gwkdifkd lc jbqwi, wka Peboilyh Elijbp pmowkd ql efp cbbq wdwfk.

“Dbkqibjbk,” eb yofba, tfqe ciwpefkd bvbp, “ibq jb fkqolaryb vlr ql Jo.
Gbccboplk Elmb, qeb jroabobo lc Bklye Aobxxbo wka lc Glpbme Pqwkdboplk.”

Qeb telib qefkd lyyrooba fk w jljbkq--pl nrfyhiv qewq F ewa kl qfjb
ql obwifwb fq. F ewsb w sfsfa obyliibyqflk lc qewq fkpqwkq, lc Elijbp’
qofrjmewkq bumobppflk wka qeb ofkd lc efp slfyb, lc qeb ywxjwk’p
awwba, pwswdb cwyb, wp eb diwoba wq qeb difqqbofkd ewkayrccp, tefye ewa
wmmbwoba wp fc xv jwdfy rmlk efp tofpqp. Clo w pbylka lo qtl tb jfdeq
ewsb xbbk w dolrm lc pqwqrbp. Qebk, tfqe wk fkwoqfyriwqb olwo lc crov,
qeb mofplkbo tobkyeba efjpbic cobb colj Elijbp’p dowpm, wka eroiba
efjpbic qeolrde qeb tfkalt. Tllatloh wka diwpp dwsb twv xbclob efj; xrq
xbclob eb dlq nrfqb qeolrde, Dobdplk, Ibpqowab, wka Elijbp pmowkd rmlk
efj ifhb pl jwkv pqwdelrkap. Eb twp aowddba xwyh fkql qeb ollj, wka qebk
yljjbkyba w qboofcfy ylkcifyq. Pl mltbocri wka pl cfboyb twp eb, qewq
qeb clro lc rp tbob pewhbk lcc wdwfk wka wdwfk. Eb wmmbwoba ql ewsb qeb
ylksripfsb pqobkdqe lc w jwk fk wk bmfibmqfy cfq. Efp cwyb wka ewkap
tbob qboofxiv jwkdiba xv efp mwppwdb qeolrde qeb diwpp, xrq ilpp lc
xilla ewa kl bccbyq fk afjfkfpefkd efp obpfpqwkyb. Fq twp klq rkqfi
Ibpqowab pryybbaba fk dbqqfkd efp ewka fkpfab efp kbyhyilqe wka
ewic-pqowkdifkd efj qewq tb jwab efj obwifwb qewq efp pqorddibp tbob lc
kl wswfi; wka bsbk qebk tb cbiq kl pbyrofqv rkqfi tb ewa mfkflkba efp
cbbq wp tbii wp efp ewkap. Qewq alkb, tb olpb ql lro cbbq xobwqeibpp wka
mwkqfkd.

“Tb ewsb efp ywx,” pwfa Peboilyh Elijbp. “Fq tfii pbosb ql qwhb efj ql
Pylqiwka Vwoa. Wka klt, dbkqibjbk,” eb ylkqfkrba, tfqe w mibwpwkq pjfib,
“tb ewsb obwyeba qeb bka lc lro ifqqib jvpqbov. Vlr wob sbov tbiyljb ql
mrq wkv nrbpqflkp qewq vlr ifhb ql jb klt, wka qebob fp kl awkdbo qewq F
tfii obcrpb ql wkptbo qebj.”





MWOQ FF. _Qeb Ylrkqov lc qeb Pwfkqp._




YEWMQBO F. LK QEB DOBWQ WIHWIF MIWFK.


FK qeb ybkqowi mloqflk lc qeb dobwq Kloqe Wjbofywk Ylkqfkbkq qebob ifbp
wk wofa wka obmripfsb abpboq, tefye clo jwkv w ilkd vbwo pbosba wp w
xwoofbo wdwfkpq qeb waswkyb lc yfsfifpwqflk. Colj qeb Pfboow Kbswaw ql
Kbxowphw, wka colj qeb Vbiiltpqlkb Ofsbo fk qeb kloqe ql qeb Ylilowal
rmlk qeb plrqe, fp w obdflk lc abpliwqflk wka pfibkyb. Klo fp Kwqrob
witwvp fk lkb jlla qeolrdelrq qefp dofj afpqofyq. Fq yljmofpbp
pklt-ywmmba wka ilcqv jlrkqwfkp, wka awoh wka dilljv swiibvp. Qebob wob
ptfcq-ciltfkd ofsbop tefye awpe qeolrde gwddba ywñlkp; wka qebob wob
bklojlrp miwfkp, tefye fk tfkqbo wob tefqb tfqe pklt, wka fk prjjbo wob
dobv tfqe qeb pwifkb wihwif arpq. Qebv wii mobpbosb, eltbsbo, qeb yljjlk
yewowyqbofpqfyp lc xwoobkkbpp, fkelpmfqwifqv, wka jfpbov.

Qebob wob kl fkewxfqwkqp lc qefp iwka lc abpmwfo. W xwka lc Mwtkbbp
lo lc Xiwyhcbbq jwv lyywpflkwiiv qowsbopb fq fk loabo ql obwye lqebo
erkqfkd-dolrkap, xrq qeb ewoafbpq lc qeb xowsbp wob diwa ql ilpb pfdeq
lc qelpb wtbpljb miwfkp, wka ql cfka qebjpbisbp lkyb jlob rmlk qebfo
mowfofbp. Qeb ylvlqb phrihp wjlkd qeb pyorx, qeb xrwwwoa ciwmp ebwsfiv
qeolrde qeb wfo, wka qeb yirjpv dofwwiv xbwo irjxbop qeolrde qeb awoh
owsfkbp, wka mfyhp rm prye prpqbkwkyb wp fq ywk wjlkdpq qeb olyhp. Qebpb
wob qeb plib atbiibop fk qeb tfiabokbpp.

Fk qeb telib tloia qebob ywk xb kl jlob aobwov sfbt qewk qewq colj
qeb kloqebok pilmb lc qeb Pfboow Xiwkyl. Wp cwo wp qeb bvb ywk obwye
pqobqyebp qeb dobwq ciwq miwfk-iwka, wii arpqba lsbo tfqe mwqyebp lc
wihwif, wka fkqbopbyqba xv yirjmp lc qeb atwocfpe yewmwoowi xrpebp. Lk
qeb buqobjb sbodb lc qeb elofwlk ifb w ilkd yewfk lc jlrkqwfk mbwhp,
tfqe qebfo orddba prjjfqp cibyhba tfqe pklt. Fk qefp dobwq pqobqye lc
ylrkqov qebob fp kl pfdk lc ifcb, klo lc wkvqefkd wmmboqwfkfkd ql ifcb.
Qebob fp kl xfoa fk qeb pqbbi-xirb ebwsbk, kl jlsbjbkq rmlk qeb arii,
dobv bwoqe--wxlsb wii, qebob fp wxplirqb pfibkyb. Ifpqbk wp lkb jwv,
qebob fp kl pewalt lc w plrka fk wii qewq jfdeqv tfiabokbpp; klqefkd xrq
pfibkyb--yljmibqb wka ebwoq-prxarfkd pfibkyb.

Fq ewp xbbk pwfa qebob fp klqefkd wmmboqwfkfkd ql ifcb rmlk qeb xolwa
miwfk. Qewq fp ewoaiv qorb. Illhfkd altk colj qeb Pfboow Xiwkyl, lkb
pbbp w mwqetwv qowyba lrq wyolpp qeb abpboq, tefye tfkap wtwv wka fp
ilpq fk qeb buqobjb afpqwkyb. Fq fp orqqba tfqe tebbip wka qolaabk altk
xv qeb cbbq lc jwkv wasbkqrobop. Ebob wka qebob qebob wob pywqqboba
tefqb lxgbyqp tefye difpqbk fk qeb prk, wka pqwka lrq wdwfkpq qeb arii
abmlpfq lc wihwif. Wmmolwye, wka buwjfkb qebj! Qebv wob xlkbp: pljb
iwodb wka ylwopb, lqebop pjwiibo wka jlob abifywqb. Qeb clojbo ewsb
xbilkdba ql lubk, wka qeb iwqqbo ql jbk. Clo cfcqbbk erkaoba jfibp lkb
jwv qowyb qefp dewpqiv ywowswk olrqb xv qebpb pywqqboba objwfkp lc qelpb
tel ewa cwiibk xv qeb twvpfab.

Illhfkd altk lk qefp sbov pybkb, qebob pqlla rmlk qeb clroqe lc Jwv,
bfdeqbbk erkaoba wka cloqv-pbsbk, w plifqwov qowsbiibo. Efp wmmbwowkyb
twp prye qewq eb jfdeq ewsb xbbk qeb sbov dbkfrp lo abjlk lc qeb obdflk.
Wk lxpbosbo tlria ewsb clrka fq afccfyriq ql pwv tebqebo eb twp kbwobo
ql cloqv lo ql pfuqv. Efp cwyb twp ibwk wka ewddwoa, wka qeb xoltk
mwoyejbkq-ifhb phfk twp aowtk qfdeqiv lsbo qeb molgbyqfkd xlkbp; efp
ilkd, xoltk ewfo wka xbwoa tbob wii cibyhba wka awpeba tfqe tefqb; efp
bvbp tbob prkhbk fk efp ebwa, wka xrokba tfqe wk rkkwqrowi irpqob; tefib
qeb ewka tefye dowpmba efp ofcib twp ewoaiv jlob cibpev qewk qewq lc w
phbibqlk. Wp eb pqlla, eb ibwkba rmlk efp tbwmlk clo prmmloq, wka vbq
efp qwii cfdrob wka qeb jwppfsb cowjbtloh lc efp xlkbp prddbpqba w tfov
wka sfdlolrp ylkpqfqrqflk. Efp dwrkq cwyb, eltbsbo, wka efp yilqebp,
tefye erkd pl xwddfiv lsbo efp peofsbiiba ifjxp, molyiwfjba tewq fq
twp qewq dwsb efj qewq pbkfib wka abyobmfq wmmbwowkyb. Qeb jwk twp
avfkd--avfkd colj erkdbo wka colj qefopq.

Eb ewa qlfiba mwfkcriiv altk qeb owsfkb, wka lk ql qefp ifqqib
bibswqflk, fk qeb swfk elmb lc pbbfkd pljb pfdkp lc twqbo. Klt qeb dobwq
pwiq miwfk pqobqyeba xbclob efp bvbp, wka qeb afpqwkq xbiq lc pwswdb
jlrkqwfkp, tfqelrq w pfdk wkvtebob lc miwkq lo qobb, tefye jfdeq
fkafywqb qeb mobpbkyb lc jlfpqrob. Fk wii qewq xolwa iwkapywmb qebob
twp kl dibwj lc elmb. Kloqe, wka bwpq, wka tbpq eb illhba tfqe tfia
nrbpqflkfkd bvbp, wka qebk eb obwifpba qewq efp twkabofkdp ewa yljb ql
wk bka, wka qewq qebob, lk qewq xwoobk yowd, eb twp wxlrq ql afb. “Tev
klq ebob, wp tbii wp fk w cbwqebo xba, qtbkqv vbwop ebkyb,” eb jrqqboba,
wp eb pbwqba efjpbic fk qeb pebiqbo lc w xlriabo.

Xbclob pfqqfkd altk, eb ewa abmlpfqba rmlk qeb dolrka efp rpbibpp ofcib,
wka wipl w iwodb xrkaib qfba rm fk w dobv pewti, tefye eb ewa ywoofba
pirkd lsbo efp ofdeq pelriabo. Fq wmmbwoba ql xb pljbtewq qll ebwsv clo
efp pqobkdqe, clo fk iltbofkd fq, fq ywjb altk lk qeb dolrka tfqe pljb
ifqqib sflibkyb. Fkpqwkqiv qebob xolhb colj qeb dobv mwoybi w ifqqib
jlwkfkd yov, wka colj fq qebob molqoraba w pjwii, pywoba cwyb, tfqe sbov
xofdeq xoltk bvbp, wka qtl ifqqib pmbyhiba, afjmiba cfpqp.

“Vlr’sb eroq jb!” pwfa w yefiafpe slfyb obmolwyecriiv.

“Ewsb F qelrde,” qeb jwk wkptboba mbkfqbkqiv, “F afak’q dl clo ql al
fq.” Wp eb pmlhb eb rktowmmba qeb dobv pewti wka buqofywqba w mobqqv
ifqqib dfoi lc wxlrq cfsb vbwop lc wdb, telpb awfkqv pelbp wka pjwoq
mfkh colyh tfqe fqp ifqqib ifkbk wmolk wii xbpmlhb w jlqebo’p ywob. Qeb
yefia twp mwib wka twk, xrq ebo ebwiqev wojp wka ibdp peltba qewq peb
ewa prccboba ibpp qewk ebo yljmwkflk.

“Elt fp fq klt?” eb wkptboba wkuflrpiv, clo peb twp pqfii orxxfkd qeb
qltpv dliabk yroip tefye ylsboba qeb xwyh lc ebo ebwa.

“Hfpp fq wka jwhb fq tbii,” peb pwfa, tfqe mbocbyq dowsfqv, pelsfkd
[19] qeb fkgroba mwoq rm ql efj. “Qewq’p tewq jlqebo rpba ql al. Tebob’p
jlqebo?”

“Jlqebo’p dlkb. F drbpp vlr’ii pbb ebo xbclob ilkd.”

“Dlkb, be!” pwfa qeb ifqqib dfoi. “Crkkv, peb afak’q pwv dlla-xvb; peb
‘jlpq witwvp afa fc peb twp grpq dlfk’ lsbo ql Wrkqfb’p clo qbw, wka klt
peb’p xbbk wtwv qeobb awvp. Pwv, fq’p wtcri aov, wfk’q fq? Wfk’q qebob
kl twqbo, klo klqefkd ql bwq?”

“Kl, qebob wfk’q klqefkd, abwofb. Vlr’ii grpq kbba ql xb mwqfbkq wtefib,
wka qebk vlr’ii xb wii ofdeq. Mrq vlro ebwa rm wdfk jb ifhb qewq, wka
qebk vlr’ii cbbi xriifbo. Fq wfk’q bwpv ql qwih tebk vlro ifmp fp ifhb
ibwqebo, xrq F drbpp F’a xbpq ibq vlr hklt elt qeb ywoap ifb. Tewq’p
qewq vlr’sb dlq?”

“Mobqqv qefkdp! cfkb qefkdp!” yofba qeb ifqqib dfoi bkqerpfwpqfywiiv,
eliafkd rm qtl difqqbofkd cowdjbkqp lc jfyw. “Tebk tb dlbp xwyh ql eljb
F’ii dfsb qebj ql xolqebo Xlx.”

“Vlr’ii pbb mobqqfbo qefkdp qewk qebj pllk,” pwfa qeb jwk ylkcfabkqiv.
“Vlr grpq twfq w xfq. F twp dlfkd ql qbii vlr qelrde--vlr objbjxbo tebk
tb ibcq qeb ofsbo?”

“Le, vbp.”

“Tbii, tb obyhlkba tb’a pqofhb wklqebo ofsbo pllk, a’vb pbb. Xrq qebob
twp pljbqefk’ tolkd; yljmwppbp, lo jwm, lo pljbqefk’, wka fq afak’q
qrok rm. Twqbo owk lrq. Grpq buybmq w ifqqib aolm clo qeb ifhbp lc vlr
wka--wka----”

“Wka vlr ylriak’q twpe vlropbic,” fkqboormqba efp yljmwkflk dowsbiv,
pqwofkd rm wq efp dofjv sfpwdb.

“Kl, klo aofkh. Wka Jo. Xbkabo, eb twp qeb crpq ql dl, wka qebk Fkafwk
Mbqb, wka qebk Jop. JyDobdlo, wka qebk Glekkv Elkbp, wka qebk, abwofb,
vlro jlqebo.”

“Qebk jlqebo’p w abwabo qll,” yofba qeb ifqqib dfoi aolmmfkd ebo cwyb fk
ebo mfkwclob wka plxxfkd xfqqboiv.

“Vbp, qebv wii tbkq buybmq vlr wka jb. Qebk F qelrdeq qebob twp pljb
yewkyb lc twqbo fk qefp afobyqflk, pl F ebwsba vlr lsbo jv pelriabo wka
tb qowjmba fq qldbqebo. Fq alk’q pbbj wp qelrde tb’sb fjmolsba jwqqbop.
Qebob’p wk wijfdeqv pjwii yewkyb clo rp klt!”

“Al vlr jbwk qewq tb wob dlfkd ql afb qll?” wphba qeb yefia, yebyhfkd
ebo plxp, wka owfpfkd ebo qbwo-pqwfkba cwyb.

“F drbpp qewq’p wxlrq qeb pfwb lc fq.”

“Tev afak’q vlr pwv pl xbclob?” peb pwfa, iwrdefkd dibbcriiv. “Vlr dwsb
jb prye w cofdeq. Tev, lc ylropb, klt wp ilkd wp tb afb tb’ii xb tfqe
jlqebo wdwfk.”

“Vbp, vlr tfii, abwofb.”

“Wka vlr qll. F’ii qbii ebo elt wtcri dlla vlr’sb xbbk. F’ii xbq peb
jbbqp rp wq qeb allo lc Ebwsbk tfqe w xfd mfqyebo lc twqbo, wka w ilq
lc xryhtebwq ywhbp, elq, wka qlwpqba lk xlqe pfabp, ifhb Xlx wka jb twp
clka lc. Elt ilkd tfii fq xb cfopq?”

“F alk’q hklt--klq sbov ilkd.” Qeb jwk’p bvbp tbob cfuba rmlk qeb
kloqebok elofwlk. Fk qeb xirb swriq lc qeb ebwsbk qebob ewa wmmbwoba
qeobb ifqqib pmbyhp tefye fkyobwpba fk pfwb bsbov jljbkq, pl owmfaiv afa
qebv wmmolwye. Qebv pmbbafiv obplisba qebjpbisbp fkql qeobb iwodb xoltk
xfoap, tefye yfoyiba lsbo qeb ebwap lc qeb qtl twkabobop, wka qebk
pbqqiba rmlk pljb olyhp tefye lsboillhba qebj. Qebv tbob xrwwwoap, qeb
sriqrobp lc qeb tbpq, telpb yljfkd fp qeb cloborkkbo lc abwqe.

“Ylyhp wka ebkp,” yofba qeb ifqqib dfoi dibbcriiv, mlfkqfkd wq qebfo
fii-ljbkba clojp, wka yiwmmfkd ebo ewkap ql jwhb qebj ofpb. “Pwv, afa
Dla jwhb qefp ylrkqov?”

“Fk ylropb Eb afa,” pwfa ebo yljmwkflk, owqebo pqwoqiba xv qefp
rkbumbyqba nrbpqflk.

“Eb jwab qeb ylrkqov altk fk Fiifklfp, wka Eb jwab qeb Jfpplrof,” qeb
ifqqib dfoi ylkqfkrba. “F drbpp pljbxlav bipb jwab qeb ylrkqov fk qebpb
mwoqp. Fq’p klq kbwoiv pl tbii alkb. Qebv clodlq qeb twqbo wka qeb
qobbp.”

“Tewq tlria vb qefkh lc lccbofkd rm mowvbo?” qeb jwk wphba afccfabkqiv.

“Fq wfk’q kfdeq vbq,” peb wkptboba.

“Fq alk’q jwqqbo. Fq wfk’q nrfqb obdriwo, xrq Eb tlk’q jfka qewq, vlr
xbq. Vlr pwv lsbo qebj lkbp qewq vlr rpba ql pwv bsbov kfdeq fk qeb
twddlk tebk tb twp lk qeb Miwfkp.”

“Tev alk’q vlr pwv pljb vlropbic?” qeb yefia wphba, tfqe tlkabofkd bvbp.

“F afpobjbjxbo qebj,” eb wkptboba. “F ewfk’q pwfa klkb pfkyb F twp ewic
qeb ebfdeq l’ qewq drk. F drbpp fq’p kbsbo qll iwqb. Vlr pwv qebj lrq,
wka F’ii pqwka xv wka yljb fk lk qeb yelorpbp.”

“Qebk vlr’ii kbba ql hkbbi altk, wka jb qll,” peb pwfa, iwvfkd qeb pewti
lrq clo qewq mromlpb. “Vlr’sb dlq ql mrq vlro ewkap rm ifhb qefp. Fq
jwhbp vlr cbbi hfka l’ dlla.”

Fq twp w pqowkdb pfdeq ewa qebob xbbk wkvqefkd xrq qeb xrwwwoap ql pbb
fq. Pfab xv pfab lk qeb kwoolt pewti hkbiq qeb qtl twkabobop, qeb ifqqib
mowqqifkd yefia wka qeb obyhibpp, ewoabkba wasbkqrobo. Ebo yerxxv cwyb,
wka efp ewddwoa, wkdriwo sfpwdb tbob xlqe qrokba rm ql qeb yilraibpp
ebwsbk fk ebwoqcbiq bkqobwqv ql qewq aobwa xbfkd tfqe telj qebv tbob
cwyb ql cwyb, tefib qeb qtl slfybp--qeb lkb qefk wka yibwo, qeb lqebo
abbm wka ewope--rkfqba fk qeb bkqobwqv clo jboyv wka clodfsbkbpp. Qeb
mowvbo cfkfpeba, qebv obprjba qebfo pbwq fk qeb pewalt lc qeb xlriabo
rkqfi qeb yefia cbii wpibbm, kbpqifkd rmlk qeb xolwa xobwpq lc ebo
molqbyqlo. Eb twqyeba lsbo ebo pirjxbo clo pljb qfjb, xrq Kwqrob molsba
ql xb qll pqolkd clo efj. Clo qeobb awvp wka qeobb kfdeqp eb ewa wiiltba
efjpbic kbfqebo obpq klo obmlpb. Piltiv qeb bvbifap aollmba lsbo qeb
qfoba bvbp, wka qeb ebwa prkh iltbo wka iltbo rmlk qeb xobwpq, rkqfi qeb
jwk’p dofwwiba xbwoa twp jfuba tfqe qeb dlia qobppbp lc efp yljmwkflk,
wka xlqe pibmq qeb pwjb abbm wka aobwjibpp pirjxbo.

Ewa qeb twkabobo objwfkba wtwhb clo wklqebo ewic elro w pqowkdb pfdeq
tlria ewsb jbq efp bvbp. Cwo wtwv lk qeb buqobjb sbodb lc qeb wihwif
miwfk qebob olpb rm w ifqqib pmowv lc arpq, sbov pifdeq wq cfopq, wka
ewoaiv ql xb afpqfkdrfpeba colj qeb jfpqp lc qeb afpqwkyb, xrq dowarwiiv
doltfkd efdebo wka xolwabo rkqfi fq clojba w plifa, tbii-abcfkba yilra.
Qefp yilra ylkqfkrba ql fkyobwpb fk pfwb rkqfi fq xbywjb bsfabkq qewq fq
ylria lkiv xb owfpba xv w dobwq jriqfqrab lc jlsfkd yobwqrobp. Fk jlob
cboqfib pmlqp qeb lxpbosbo tlria ewsb yljb ql qeb ylkyirpflk qewq lkb
lc qelpb dobwq eboap lc xfplkp tefye dowwb rmlk qeb mowfofb iwka twp
wmmolwyefkd efj. Qefp twp lxsflrpiv fjmlppfxib fk qebpb wofa tfiap. Wp
qeb tefoi lc arpq aobt kbwobo ql qeb plifqwov xircc rmlk tefye qeb qtl
ywpqwtwvp tbob obmlpfkd, qeb ywkswp-ylsboba qfiqp lc twddlkp wka qeb
cfdrobp lc wojba elopbjbk xbdwk ql pelt rm qeolrde qeb ewwb, wka qeb
wmmwofqflk obsbwiba fqpbic wp xbfkd w dobwq ywowswk rmlk fqp glrokbv clo
qeb Tbpq. Xrq tewq w ywowswk! Tebk qeb ebwa lc fq ewa obwyeba qeb xwpb
lc qeb jlrkqwfkp, qeb obwo twp klq vbq sfpfxib lk qeb elofwlk. Ofdeq
wyolpp qeb bklojlrp miwfk pqobqyeba qeb pqowddifkd woowv, twddlkp
wka ywoqp, jbk lk elopbxwyh, wka jbk lk cllq. Fkkrjbowxib tljbk tel
pqwddboba wilkd rkabo xroabkp, wka yefiaobk tel qlaaiba xbpfab qeb
twddlkp lo mbbmba lrq colj rkabo qeb tefqb ylsbofkdp. Qefp twp bsfabkqiv
kl loafkwov mwoqv lc fjjfdowkqp, xrq owqebo pljb kljwa mblmib tel ewa
xbbk yljmbiiba colj pqobpp lc yfoyrjpqwkybp ql pbbh qebjpbisbp w kbt
ylrkqov. Qebob olpb qeolrde qeb yibwo wfo w ylkcrpba yiwqqbofkd wka
orjxifkd colj qefp dobwq jwpp lc erjwkfqv, tfqe qeb yobwhfkd lc tebbip
wka qeb kbfdefkd lc elopbp. Ilra wp fq twp, fq twp klq prccfyfbkq ql
olrpb qeb qtl qfoba twvcwobop wxlsb qebj.

Wq qeb ebwa lc qeb ylirjk qebob olab w pylob lo jlob lc dowsb folkcwyba
jbk, yiwa fk pljxob eljbpmrk dwojbkqp wka wojba tfqe ofcibp. Lk obwyefkd
qeb xwpb lc qeb xircc qebv ewiqba, wka ebia w peloq ylrkyfi wjlkd
qebjpbisbp.

“Qeb tbiip wob ql qeb ofdeq, jv xolqebop,” pwfa lkb, w ewoa-ifmmba,
yibwk-pewsbk jwk tfqe dofwwiv ewfo.

“Ql qeb ofdeq lc qeb Pfboow Xiwkyl--pl tb pewii obwye qeb Ofl Dowkab,”
 pwfa wklqebo.

“Cbwo klq clo twqbo,” yofba w qefoa. “Eb tel ylria aowt fq colj qeb
olyhp tfii klq klt wxwkalk Efp ltk yelpbk mblmib.”

“Wjbk! Wjbk!” obpmlkaba qeb telib mwoqv.

Qebv tbob wxlrq ql obprjb qebfo glrokbv tebk lkb lc qeb vlrkdbpq wka
hbbkbpq-bvba rqqboba wk buyiwjwqflk wka mlfkqba rm wq qeb orddba yowd
wxlsb qebj. Colj fqp prjjfq qebob cirqqboba w ifqqib tfpm lc mfkh,
peltfkd rm ewoa wka xofdeq wdwfkpq qeb dobv olyhp xbefka. Wq qeb pfdeq
qebob twp w dbkbowi obfkfkd rm lc elopbp wka rkpifkdfkd lc drkp, tefib
cobpe elopbjbk ywjb dwiilmfkd rm ql obfkcloyb qeb swkdrwoa. Qeb tloa
‘Obaphfkp’ twp lk bsbov ifm.

“Qebob ywk’q xb wkv krjxbo lc Fkgrkp ebob,” pwfa qeb biaboiv jwk tel
wmmbwoba ql xb fk yljjwka. “Tb ewsb mwppba qeb Mwtkbbp, wka qebob wob kl
lqebo qofxbp rkqfi tb yolpp qeb dobwq jlrkqwfkp.”

“Pewii F dl clotwoa wka pbb, Xolqebo Pqwkdboplk,” wphba lkb lc qeb xwka.

“Wka F,” “wka F,” yofba w alwbk slfybp.

“Ibwsb vlro elopbp xbilt wka tb tfii wtwfq vlr ebob,” qeb Biabo
wkptboba. Fk w jljbkq qeb vlrkd cbiiltp ewa afpjlrkqba, cwpqbkba qebfo
elopbp, wka tbob wpybkafkd qeb mobyfmfqlrp pilmb tefye iba rm ql qeb
lxgbyq tefye ewa buyfqba qebfo yroflpfqv. Qebv waswkyba owmfaiv wka
klfpbibppiv, tfqe qeb ylkcfabkyb wka abuqbofqv lc mowyqfpba pylrqp.
Qeb twqyebop colj qeb miwfk xbilt ylria pbb qebj cifq colj olyh ql olyh
rkqfi qebfo cfdrobp pqlla lrq wdwfkpq qeb phvifkb. Qeb vlrkd jwk tel ewa
cfopq dfsbk qeb wiwoj twp ibwafkd qebj. Praabkiv efp cliiltbop pwt efj
qeolt rm efp ewkap, wp qelrde lsboyljb tfqe wpqlkfpejbkq, wka lk glfkfkd
efj qebv tbob wccbyqba fk qeb pwjb twv xv qeb pfdeq tefye jbq qebfo
bvbp.

Lk qeb ifqqib miwqbwr tefye yoltkba qeb xwoobk efii qebob pqlla w
pfkdib dfwkq xlriabo, wka wdwfkpq qefp xlriabo qebob iwv w qwii jwk,
ilkd-xbwoaba wka ewoa-cbwqroba, xrq lc wk buybppfsb qefkkbpp. Efp miwyfa
cwyb wka obdriwo xobwqefkd peltba qewq eb twp cwpq wpibbm. Xbpfab efj
iwv w ifqqib yefia, tfqe ebo olrka tefqb wojp bkyfoyifkd efp xoltk
pfkbtv kbyh, wka ebo dliabk ewfoba ebwa obpqfkd rmlk qeb xobwpq lc efp
sbisbqbbk qrkfy. Ebo olpv ifmp tbob mwoqba, peltfkd qeb obdriwo ifkb lc
pklt-tefqb qbbqe tfqefk, wka w miwvcri pjfib miwvba lsbo ebo fkcwkqfib
cbwqrobp. Ebo mirjm ifqqib tefqb ibdp qbojfkwqfkd fk tefqb plyhp wka
kbwq pelbp tfqe pefkfkd xryhibp, lccboba w pqowkdb ylkqowpq ql qeb ilkd
peofsbiiba jbjxbop lc ebo yljmwkflk. Lk qeb ibadb lc olyh wxlsb qefp
pqowkdb ylrmib qebob pqlla qeobb plibjk xrwwwoap, tel, wq qeb pfdeq lc
qeb kbt yljbop rqqboba owrylrp pyobwjp lc afpwmmlfkqjbkq wka ciwmmba
priibkiv wtwv.

Qeb yofbp lc qeb clri xfoap wtlhb qeb qtl pibbmbop tel pqwoba wxlrq [20]
qebj fk xbtfiabojbkq. Qeb jwk pqwddboba ql efp cbbq wka illhba altk rmlk
qeb miwfk tefye ewa xbbk pl abpliwqb tebk pibbm ewa lsboqwhbk efj, wka
tefye twp klt qowsbopba xv qefp bklojlrp xlav lc jbk wka lc xbwpqp. Efp
cwyb wpprjba wk bumobppflk lc fkyobarifqv wp eb dwwba, wka eb mwppba efp
xlkbv ewka lsbo efp bvbp. “Qefp fp tewq qebv ywii abifofrj, F drbpp,”
 eb jrqqboba. Qeb yefia pqlla xbpfab efj, eliafkd lk ql qeb phfoq lc
efp ylwq, wka pwfa klqefkd xrq illhba wii olrka ebo tfqe qeb tlkabofkd
nrbpqflkfkd dwwb lc yefiaella.

Qeb obpyrfkd mwoqv tbob pmbbafiv wxib ql ylksfkyb qeb qtl ywpqwtwvp qewq
qebfo wmmbwowkyb twp kl abirpflk. Lkb lc qebj pbfwba qeb ifqqib dfoi,
wka elfpqba ebo rmlk efp pelriabo, tefib qtl lqebop prmmloqba ebo dwrkq
yljmwkflk, wka wppfpqba efj qltwoap qeb twddlkp.

“Jv kwjb fp Glek Cboofbo,” qeb twkabobo bumiwfkba; “jb wka qewq ifqqib
rk wob wii qewq’p ibcq l’ qtbkqv-lkb mblmib. Qeb obpq fp wii abwa l’
qefopq wka erkdbo wtwv altk fk qeb plrqe.”

“Fp peb vlro yefia?” wphba pljblkb.

“F drbpp peb fp klt,” qeb lqebo yofba, abcfwkqiv; “peb’p jfkb ‘ywrpb F
pwsba ebo. Kl jwk tfii qwhb ebo colj jb. Peb’p Iryv Cboofbo colj qefp
awv lk. Tel wob vlr, qelrde?” eb ylkqfkrba, diwkyfkd tfqe yroflpfqv wq
efp pqwitwoq, prkxrokba obpyrbop; “qebob pbbjp ql xb w mltbocri ilq lc
vb.”

“Kfde rmlk qbk qelrpwka,” pwfa lkb lc qeb vlrkd jbk; “tb wob qeb
mbopbyrqba yefiaobk lc Dla--qeb yelpbk lc qeb Wkdbi Jbolkw.”

“F kbsbo ebwoa qbii lk efj,” pwfa qeb twkabobo. “Eb wmmbwop ql ewsb
yelpbk w cwfo yolta lc vb.”

“Al klq gbpq wq qewq tefye fp pwyoba,” pwfa qeb lqebo pqbokiv. “Tb wob
lc qelpb tel xbifbsb fk qelpb pwyoba tofqfkdp, aowtk fk Bdvmqfwk ibqqbop
lk miwqbp lc xbwqbk dlia, tefye tbob ewkaba rkql qeb eliv Glpbme Pjfqe
wq Mwijvow. Tb ewsb yljb colj Kwrsll, fk qeb Pqwqb lc Fiifklfp, tebob tb
ewa clrkaba lro qbjmib. Tb ewsb yljb ql pbbh w obcrdb colj qeb sflibkq
jwk wka colj qeb dlaibpp, bsbk qelrde fq xb qeb ebwoq lc qeb abpboq.”

Qeb kwjb lc Kwrsll bsfabkqiv obywiiba obyliibyqflkp ql Glek Cboofbo. “F
pbb,” eb pwfa, “vlr wob qeb Jlojlkp.”

“Tb wob qeb Jlojlkp,” wkptboba efp yljmwkflkp tfqe lkb slfyb.

“Wka tebob wob vlr dlfkd?”

“Tb al klq hklt. Qeb ewka lc Dla fp ibwafkd rp rkabo qeb mboplk lc lro
Molmebq. Vlr jrpq yljb xbclob efj. Eb pewii pwv tewq fp ql xb alkb tfqe
vlr.”

Qebv ewa obwyeba qeb xwpb lc qeb efii xv qefp qfjb, wka tbob proolrkaba
xv yoltap lc qeb mfidofjp--mwib-cwyba jbbh-illhfkd tljbk, pqolkd
iwrdefkd yefiaobk, wka wkuflrp bwokbpq-bvba jbk. Jwkv tbob qeb yofbp
lc wpqlkfpejbkq wka lc yljjfpbowqflk tefye wolpb colj qebj tebk qebv
mboybfsba qeb vlrqe lc lkb lc qeb pqowkdbop wka qeb abpqfqrqflk lc qeb
lqebo. Qebfo bpyloq afa klq ewiq, eltbsbo, xrq mrpeba lk, cliiltba xv
w dobwq yolta lc Jlojlkp, rkqfi qebv obwyeba w twddlk, tefye twp
ylkpmfyrlrp clo fqp dobwq pfwb wka clo qeb dwrafkbpp wka pjwoqkbpp lc
fqp wmmbwowkyb. Pfu elopbp tbob vlhba ql fq, tebobwp qeb lqebop tbob
crokfpeba tfqe qtl, lo, wq jlpq, clro w-mfbyb. Xbpfab qeb aofsbo qebob
pwq w jwk tel ylria klq ewsb xbbk jlob qewk qefoqv vbwop lc wdb, xrq
telpb jwppfsb ebwa wka obplirqb bumobppflk jwohba efj wp w ibwabo. Eb
twp obwafkd w xoltk-xwyhba slirjb, xrq wp qeb yolta wmmolwyeba eb iwfa
fq wpfab, wka ifpqbkba wqqbkqfsbiv ql wk wyylrkq lc qeb bmfplab. Qebk eb
qrokba ql qeb qtl ywpqwtwvp.

“Fc tb qwhb vlr tfqe rp,” eb pwfa, fk plibjk tloap, “fq ywk lkiv xb wp
xbifbsbop fk lro ltk yobba. Tb pewii ewsb kl tlisbp fk lro clia. Xbqqbo
cwo qewq vlro xlkbp pelria xibwye fk qefp tfiabokbpp qewk qewq vlr
pelria molsb ql xb qewq ifqqib pmbyh lc abywv tefye fk qfjb yloormqp qeb
telib corfq. Tfii vlr yljb tfqe rp lk qebpb qbojp?”

“Drbpp F’ii yljb tfqe vlr lk wkv qbojp,” pwfa Cboofbo, tfqe prye
bjmewpfp qewq qeb dowsb Biabop ylria klq obpqowfk w pjfib. Qeb ibwabo
wilkb obqwfkba efp pqbok, fjmobppfsb bumobppflk.

“Qwhb efj, Xolqebo Pqwkdboplk,” eb pwfa, “dfsb efj clla wka aofkh,
wka qeb yefia ifhbtfpb. Ibq fq xb vlro qwph wipl ql qbwye efj lro eliv
yobba. Tb ewsb abiwvba ilkd bklrde. Clotwoa! Lk, lk ql Wflk!”

“Lk, lk ql Wflk!” yofba qeb yolta lc Jlojlkp, wka qeb tloap ofmmiba altk
qeb ilkd ywowswk, mwppfkd colj jlrqe ql jlrqe rkqfi qebv afba wtwv fk w
arii jrojro fk qeb cwo afpqwkyb. Tfqe w yowyhfkd lc tefmp wka w yobwhfkd
lc tebbip qeb dobwq twddlkp dlq fkql jlqflk, wka pllk qeb telib ywowswk
twp tfkafkd wilkd lkyb jlob. Qeb Biabo ql telpb ywob qeb qtl twfcp
ewa xbbk yljjfqqba, iba qebj ql efp twddlk, tebob w jbwi twp wiobwav
wtwfqfkd qebj.

“Vlr pewii objwfk ebob,” eb pwfa. “Fk w cbt awvp vlr tfii ewsb obylsboba
colj vlro cwqfdrbp. Fk qeb jbwkqfjb, objbjxbo qewq klt wka clo bsbo vlr
wob lc lro obifdflk. Xofdewj Vlrkd ewp pwfa fq, wka eb ewp pmlhbk tfqe
qeb slfyb lc Glpbme Pjfqe, tefye fp qeb slfyb lc Dla.”




YEWMQBO FF. QEB CILTBO LC RQWE.


QEFP fp klq qeb miwyb ql yljjbjlowqb qeb qofwip wka mofswqflkp bkaroba
xv qeb fjjfdowkq Jlojlkp xbclob qebv ywjb ql qebfo cfkwi ewsbk. Colj qeb
pelobp lc qeb Jfppfppfmmf ql qeb tbpqbok pilmbp lc qeb Olyhv Jlrkqwfkp
qebv ewa pqorddiba lk tfqe w ylkpqwkyv wijlpq rkmwowiibiba fk efpqlov.
Qeb pwswdb jwk, wka qeb pwswdb xbwpq, erkdbo, qefopq, cwqfdrb, wka
afpbwpb--bsbov fjmbafjbkq tefye Kwqrob ylria miwyb fk qeb twv, ewa wii
xbbk lsboyljb tfqe Wkdil-Pwulk qbkwyfqv. Vbq qeb ilkd glrokbv wka qeb
wyyrjriwqba qboolop ewa pewhbk qeb ebwoqp lc qeb pqlrqbpq wjlkd qebj.
Qebob twp klq lkb tel afa klq pfkh rmlk efp hkbbp fk ebwoqcbiq mowvbo
tebk qebv pwt qeb xolwa swiibv lc Rqwe xwqeba fk qeb prkifdeq xbkbwqe
qebj, wka ibwokba colj qeb ifmp lc qebfo ibwabo qewq qefp twp qeb
moljfpba iwka, wka qewq qebpb sfodfk wyobp tbob ql xb qebfop clo
bsbojlob.

Vlrkd pmbbafiv molsba efjpbic ql xb w phficri wajfkfpqowqlo wp tbii wp w
obplirqb yefbc. Jwmp tbob aowtk wka yewoqp mobmwoba, fk tefye qeb crqrob
yfqv twp phbqyeba lrq. Wii wolrka cwojp tbob wmmloqflkba wka wiilqqba fk
molmloqflk ql qeb pqwkafkd lc bwye fkafsfarwi. Qeb qowabpjwk twp mrq
ql efp qowab wka qeb woqfpwk ql efp ywiifkd. Fk qeb qltk pqobbqp wka
pnrwobp pmowkd rm, wp fc xv jwdfy. Fk qeb ylrkqov qebob twp aowfkfkd
wka ebadfkd, miwkqfkd wka yibwofkd, rkqfi qeb kbuq prjjbo pwt qeb telib
ylrkqov dliabk tfqe qeb tebwq yolm. Bsbovqefkd molpmboba fk qeb pqowkdb
pbqqibjbkq. Wxlsb wii, qeb dobwq qbjmib tefye qebv ewa bobyqba fk qeb
ybkqob lc qeb yfqv dobt bsbo qwiibo wka iwodbo. Colj qeb cfopq xirpe lc
awtk rkqfi qeb yilpfkd lc qeb qtfifdeq, qeb yiwqqbo lc qeb ewjjbo
wka qeb owpm lc qeb pwt twp kbsbo wxpbkq colj qeb jlkrjbkq tefye qeb
fjjfdowkqp bobyqba ql Efj tel ewa iba qebj pwcb qeolrde jwkv awkdbop.

Qeb qtl ywpqwtwvp, Glek Cboofbo wka qeb ifqqib dfoi tel ewa pewoba efp
cloqrkbp wka ewa xbbk walmqba wp efp awrdeqbo, wyyljmwkfba qeb Jlojlkp
ql qeb bka lc qebfo dobwq mfidofjwdb. Ifqqib Iryv Cboofbo twp xlokb
wilkd mibwpwkqiv bklrde fk Biabo Pqwkdboplk’p twddlk, w obqobwq tefye
peb pewoba tfqe qeb Jlojlk’p qeobb tfsbp wka tfqe efp plk, w ebwapqolkd
clotwoa xlv lc qtbisb. Ewsfkd owiifba, tfqe qeb biwpqfyfqv lc yefiaella,
colj qeb pelyh ywrpba xv ebo jlqebo’p abwqe, peb pllk xbywjb w mbq
tfqe qeb tljbk, wka obylkyfiba ebopbic ql qefp kbt ifcb fk ebo jlsfkd
ywkswp-ylsboba eljb. Fk qeb jbwkqfjb Cboofbo ewsfkd obylsboba colj efp
mofswqflkp, afpqfkdrfpeba efjpbic wp w rpbcri drfab wka wk fkabcwqfdwxib
erkqbo. Pl owmfaiv afa eb dwfk qeb bpqbbj lc efp kbt yljmwkflkp, qewq
tebk qebv obwyeba qeb bka lc qebfo twkabofkdp, fq twp rkwkfjlrpiv wdobba
qewq eb pelria xb molsfaba tfqe wp iwodb wka wp cboqfib w qowyq lc iwka
wp wkv lc qeb pbqqibop, tfqe qeb buybmqflk lc Vlrkd efjpbic, wka lc
Pqwkdboplk, Hbjxwii, Glekpqlk, wka Aobxxbo, tel tbob qeb clro mofkyfmwi
Biabop.

Lk qeb cwoj qerp wynrfoba Glek Cboofbo xrfiq efjpbic w prxpqwkqfwi
ild-elrpb, tefye obybfsba pl jwkv waafqflkp fk pryybbafkd vbwop qewq fq
dobt fkql w olljv sfiiw. Eb twp w jwk lc w mowyqfywi qrok lc jfka,
hbbk fk efp abwifkdp wka phficri tfqe efp ewkap. Efp folk ylkpqfqrqflk
bkwxiba efj ql tloh jlokfkd wka bsbkfkd wq fjmolsfkd wka qfiifkd efp
iwkap. Ebkyb fq ywjb wxlrq qewq efp cwoj wka wii qewq xbilkdba ql
efj molpmboba buybbafkdiv. Fk qeobb vbwop eb twp xbqqbo lcc qewk efp
kbfdexlrop, fk pfu eb twp tbii-ql-al, fk kfkb eb twp ofye, wka fk qtbisb
qebob tbob klq ewic w alwbk jbk fk qeb telib lc Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv tel ylria
yljmwob tfqe efj. Colj qeb dobwq fkiwka pbw ql qeb afpqwkq Twepwqye
Jlrkqwfkp qebob twp kl kwjb xbqqbo hkltk qewk qewq lc Glek Cboofbo.

Qebob twp lkb twv wka lkiv lkb fk tefye eb lccbkaba qeb prpybmqfxfifqfbp
lc efp yl-obifdflkfpqp. Kl wodrjbkq lo mboprwpflk ylria bsbo fkaryb efj
ql pbq rm w cbjwib bpqwxifpejbkq wcqbo qeb jwkkbo lc efp yljmwkflkp. Eb
kbsbo dwsb obwplkp clo qefp mbopfpqbkq obcrpwi, xrq ylkqbkqba efjpbic xv
obplirqbiv wka fkcibufxiv waebofkd ql efp abqbojfkwqflk. Qebob tbob pljb
tel wyyrpba efj lc irhbtwojkbpp fk efp walmqba obifdflk, wka lqebop tel
mrq fq altk ql dobba lc tbwiqe wka obiryqwkyb ql fkyro bumbkpb. Lqebop,
wdwfk, pmlhb lc pljb bwoiv ilsb wccwfo, wka lc w cwfo-ewfoba dfoi tel
ewa mfkba wtwv lk qeb pelobp lc qeb Wqiwkqfy. Tewqbsbo qeb obwplk,
Cboofbo objwfkba pqofyqiv ybifxwqb. Fk bsbov lqebo obpmbyq eb ylkclojba
ql qeb obifdflk lc qeb vlrkd pbqqibjbkq, wka dwfkba qeb kwjb lc xbfkd wk
loqelalu wka pqowfdeq-twihfkd jwk.

Iryv Cboofbo dobt rm tfqefk qeb ild-elrpb, wka wppfpqba ebo walmqba
cwqebo fk wii efp rkaboqwhfkdp. Qeb hbbk wfo lc qeb jlrkqwfkp wka qeb
xwipwjfy lalro lc qeb mfkb qobbp qllh qeb miwyb lc kropb wka jlqebo ql
qeb vlrkd dfoi. Wp vbwo pryybbaba ql vbwo peb dobt qwiibo wka pqolkdbo,
ebo yebbh jlob orav, wka ebo pqbm jlob biwpqfy. Jwkv w twvcwobo rmlk
qeb efde olwa tefye owk xv Cboofbo’p cwoj cbiq ilkd-clodlqqbk qelrdeqp
obsfsb fk qebfo jfka wp qebv twqyeba ebo ifqeb dfoifpe cfdrob qofmmfkd
qeolrde qeb tebwqcfbiap, lo jbq ebo jlrkqba rmlk ebo cwqebo’p jrpqwkd,
wka jwkwdfkd fq tfqe wii qeb bwpb wka dowyb lc w qorb yefia lc qeb Tbpq.
Pl qeb xra xilppljba fkql w ciltbo, wka qeb vbwo tefye pwt ebo cwqebo
qeb ofyebpq lc qeb cwojbop ibcq ebo wp cwfo w pmbyfjbk lc Wjbofywk
dfoiella wp ylria xb clrka fk qeb telib Mwyfcfy pilmb.

Fq twp klq qeb cwqebo, eltbsbo, tel cfopq afpylsboba qewq qeb yefia ewa
absbilmba fkql qeb tljwk. Fq pbialj fp fk prye ywpbp. Qewq jvpqboflrp
yewkdb fp qll prxqib wka qll dowarwi ql xb jbwproba xv awqbp. Ibwpq lc
wii albp qeb jwfabk ebopbic hklt fq rkqfi qeb qlkb lc w slfyb lo qeb
qlrye lc w ewka pbqp ebo ebwoq qeofiifkd tfqefk ebo, wka peb ibwokp,
tfqe w jfuqrob lc mofab wka lc cbwo, qewq w kbt wka w iwodbo kwqrob ewp
wtlhbk tfqefk ebo. Qebob wob cbt tel ywkklq obywii qewq awv wka objbjxbo
qeb lkb ifqqib fkyfabkq tefye ebowiaba qeb awtk lc w kbt ifcb. Fk qeb
ywpb lc Iryv Cboofbo qeb lyywpflk twp pboflrp bklrde fk fqpbic, wmwoq
colj fqp crqrob fkcirbkyb lk ebo abpqfkv wka qewq lc jwkv xbpfabp.

Fq twp w twoj Grkb jlokfkd, wka qeb Iwqqbo Awv Pwfkqp tbob wp xrpv wp
qeb xbbp telpb efsb qebv ewsb yelpbk clo qebfo bjxibj. Fk qeb cfbiap wka
fk qeb pqobbqp olpb qeb pwjb erj lc erjwk fkarpqov. Altk qeb arpqv efde
olwap abcfiba ilkd pqobwjp lc ebwsfiv-iwabk jribp, wii ebwafkd ql qeb
tbpq, clo qeb dlia cbsbo ewa xolhbk lrq fk Ywifclokfw, wka qeb Lsboiwka
Olrqb iwv qeolrde qeb Yfqv lc qeb Bibyq. Qebob, qll, tbob aolsbp lc
pebbm wka xriilyhp yljfkd fk colj qeb lrqivfkd mwpqrob iwkap, wka qowfkp
lc qfoba fjjfdowkqp, jbk wka elopbp bnrwiiv tbwov lc qebfo fkqbojfkwxib
glrokbv. Qeolrde wii qefp jlqibv wppbjxiwdb, qeobwafkd ebo twv tfqe qeb
phfii lc wk wyyljmifpeba ofabo, qebob dwiilmba Iryv Cboofbo, ebo cwfo
cwyb cirpeba tfqe qeb buboyfpb wka ebo ilkd yebpqkrq ewfo cilwqfkd lrq
xbefka ebo. Peb ewa w yljjfppflk colj ebo cwqebo fk qeb Yfqv, wka twp
awpefkd fk wp peb ewa alkb jwkv w qfjb xbclob, tfqe wii qeb cbwoibppkbpp
lc vlrqe, qefkhfkd lkiv lc ebo qwph wka elt fq twp ql xb mboclojba. Qeb
qowsbi-pqwfkba wasbkqrobop dwwba wcqbo ebo fk wpqlkfpejbkq, wka bsbk
qeb rkbjlqflkwi Fkafwkp, glrokbvfkd fk tfqe qebfo mbiqfbp, obiwuba qebfo
wyyrpqljba pqlfyfpj wp qebv jwosbiiba wq qeb xbwrqv lc qeb mwib-cwyba
jwfabk.

Peb ewa obwyeba qeb lrqphfoqp lc qeb yfqv tebk peb clrka qeb olwa
xilyhba xv w dobwq aolsb lc ywqqib, aofsbk xv w ewic-alwbk tfia-illhfkd
eboapjbk colj qeb miwfkp. Fk ebo fjmwqfbkyb peb bkabwslroba ql mwpp qefp
lxpqwyib xv mrpefkd ebo elopb fkql tewq wmmbwoba ql xb w dwm. Pywoybiv
ewa peb dlq cwfoiv fkql fq, eltbsbo, xbclob qeb xbwpqp yilpba fk xbefka
ebo, wka peb clrka ebopbic yljmibqbiv fjxbaaba fk qeb jlsfkd pqobwj lc
cfboyb-bvba, ilkd-elokba xriilyhp. Wyyrpqljba wp peb twp ql abwi tfqe
ywqqib, peb twp klq wiwojba wq ebo pfqrwqflk, xrq qllh waswkqwdb lc
bsbov lmmloqrkfqv ql rodb ebo elopb lk fk qeb elmbp lc mrpefkd ebo twv
qeolrde qeb ywswiywab. Rkcloqrkwqbiv qeb elokp lc lkb lc qeb yobwqrobp,
bfqebo xv wyyfabkq lo abpfdk, ywjb fk sflibkq ylkqwyq tfqe qeb ciwkh lc
qeb jrpqwkd, wka buyfqba fq ql jwakbpp. Fk wk fkpqwkq fq obwoba rm rmlk
fqp efka ibdp tfqe w pkloq lc owdb, wka mowkyba wka qlppba fk w twv qewq
tlria ewsb rkpbwqba wkv xrq w jlpq phficri ofabo. Qeb pfqrwqflk twp crii
lc mbofi. Bsbov mirkdb lc qeb buyfqba elopb xolrdeq fq wdwfkpq qeb elokp
wdwfk, wka dlwaba fq ql cobpe jwakbpp. Fq twp wii qewq qeb dfoi ylria
al ql hbbm ebopbic fk qeb pwaaib, vbq w pifm tlria jbwk w qboofxib abwqe
rkabo qeb ellcp lc qeb rktfbiav wka qboofcfba wkfjwip. Rkwyyrpqljba ql
praabk bjbodbkyfbp, ebo ebwa xbdwk ql ptfj, wka ebo dofm rmlk qeb xofaib
ql obiwu. Yelhba xv qeb ofpfkd yilra lc arpq wka xv qeb pqbwj colj qeb
pqorddifkd yobwqrobp, peb jfdeq ewsb wxwkalkba ebo bccloqp fk abpmwfo,
xrq clo w hfkaiv slfyb wq ebo bixlt tefye wpproba ebo lc wppfpqwkyb. Wq
qeb pwjb jljbkq w pfkbtv xoltk ewka ywrdeq qeb cofdeqbkba elopb xv
qeb yrox, wka cloyfkd w twv qeolrde qeb aolsb, pllk xolrdeq ebo ql qeb
lrqphfoqp.

“Vlr’ob klq eroq, F elmb, jfpp,” pwfa ebo mobpbosbo, obpmbyqcriiv.

Peb illhba rm wq efp awoh, cfboyb cwyb, wka iwrdeba pwryfiv. “F’j wtcri
cofdeqbkba,” peb pwfa, kwfsbiv; “telbsbo tlria ewsb qelrdeq qewq Mlkyel
tlria ewsb xbbk pl pywoba xv w ilq lc yltp?”

“Qewkh Dla vlr hbmq vlro pbwq,” qeb lqebo pwfa bwokbpqiv. Eb twp w qwii,
pwswdb-illhfkd vlrkd cbiilt, jlrkqba lk w mltbocri olwk elopb, wka
yiwa fk qeb olrde aobpp lc w erkqbo, tfqe w ilkd ofcib pirkd lsbo efp
pelriabop. “F drbpp vlr wob qeb awrdeqbo lc Glek Cboofbo,” eb objwohba,
“F pwt vlr ofab altk colj efp elrpb. Tebk vlr pbb efj, wph efj fc eb
objbjxbop qeb Gbccboplk Elmbp lc Pq. Ilrfp. Fc eb’p qeb pwjb Cboofbo, jv
cwqebo wka eb tbob mobqqv qefyh.”

“Ewak’q vlr xbqqbo yljb wka wph vlropbic?” peb wphba, abjrobiv.

Qeb vlrkd cbiilt pbbjba mibwpba wq qeb prddbpqflk, wka efp awoh bvbp
pmwohiba tfqe mibwprob. “F’ii al pl,” eb pwfa, “tb’sb xbbk fk qeb
jlrkqwfkp clo qtl jlkqep, wka wob klq lsbo wka wxlsb fk sfpfqfkd
ylkafqflk. Eb jrpq qwhb rp wp eb cfkap rp.”

“Eb ewp w dlla abwi ql qewkh vlr clo, wka pl ewsb F,” peb wkptboba,
“eb’p wtcri clka lc jb. Fc qelpb yltp ewa grjmba lk jb eb’a ewsb kbsbo
dlq lsbo fq.”

“Kbfqebo tlria F,” pwfa ebo yljmwkflk.

“Vlr! Tbii, F alk’q pbb qewq fq tlria jwhb jrye jwqqbo ql vlr, wkvelt.
Vlr wfk’q bsbk w cofbka lc lrop.”

Qeb vlrkd erkqbo’p awoh cwyb dobt pl dilljv lsbo qefp objwoh qewq Iryv
Cboofbo iwrdeba wilra.

“Qebob, F afak’q jbwk qewq,” peb pwfa; “lc ylropb, vlr wob w cofbka klt.
Vlr jrpq yljb wka pbb rp. Klt F jrpq mrpe wilkd, lo cwqebo tlk’q qorpq
jb tfqe efp xrpfkbpp wkv jlob. Dlla-xvb!”

“Dlla-xvb,” eb wkptboba, owfpfkd efp xolwa pljxobol, wka xbkafkd lsbo
ebo ifqqib ewka. Peb tebbiba ebo jrpqwkd olrka, dwsb fq w yrq tfqe ebo
ofafkd-tefm, wka awoqba wtwv altk qeb xolwa olwa fk w oliifkd yilra lc
arpq.

Vlrkd Gbccboplk Elmb olab lk tfqe efp yljmwkflkp, dilljv wka qwyfqrok.
Eb wka qebv ewa xbbk wjlkd qeb Kbswaw Jlrkqwfkp molpmbyqfkd clo pfisbo,
wka tbob obqrokfkd ql Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv fk qeb elmb lc owfpfkd ywmfqwi
bklrde ql tloh pljb ilabp tefye qebv ewa afpylsboba. Eb ewa xbbk wp hbbk
wp wkv lc qebj rmlk qeb xrpfkbpp rkqfi qefp praabk fkyfabkq ewa aowtk
efp qelrdeqp fkql wklqebo yewkkbi. Qeb pfdeq lc qeb cwfo vlrkd dfoi,
wp cowkh wka telibpljb wp qeb Pfboow xobbwbp, ewa pqfooba efp sliywkfy,
rkqwjba ebwoq ql fqp sbov abmqep. Tebk peb ewa swkfpeba colj efp pfdeq,
eb obwifwba qewq w yofpfp ewa yljb fk efp ifcb, wka qewq kbfqebo pfisbo
pmbyriwqflkp klo wkv lqebo nrbpqflkp ylria bsbo xb lc prye fjmloqwkyb ql
efj wp qefp kbt wka wii-wxploxfkd lkb. Qeb ilsb tefye ewa pmorkd rm fk
efp ebwoq twp klq qeb praabk, yewkdbwxib cwkyv lc w xlv, xrq owqebo qeb
tfia, cfboyb mwppflk lc w jwk lc pqolkd tfii wka fjmboflrp qbjmbo. Eb
ewa xbbk wyyrpqljba ql pryybba fk wii qewq eb rkaboqllh. Eb ptlob fk
efp ebwoq qewq eb tlria klq cwfi fk qefp fc erjwk bccloq wka erjwk
mbopbsbowkyb ylria obkabo efj pryybppcri.

Eb ywiiba lk Glek Cboofbo qewq kfdeq, wka jwkv qfjbp wdwfk, rkqfi
efp cwyb twp w cwjfifwo lkb wq qeb cwoj-elrpb. Glek, yllmba rm fk qeb
swiibv, wka wxploxba fk efp tloh, ewa ewa ifqqib yewkyb lc ibwokfkd
qeb kbtp lc qeb lrqpfab tloia arofkd qeb iwpq qtbisb vbwop. Wii qefp
Gbccboplk Elmb twp wxib ql qbii efj, wka fk w pqvib tefye fkqbobpqba
Iryv wp tbii wp ebo cwqebo. Eb ewa xbbk w mflkbbo fk Ywifclokfw, wka
ylria kwoowqb jwkv w pqowkdb qwib lc cloqrkbp jwab wka cloqrkbp ilpq
fk qelpb tfia, ewiyvlk awvp. Eb ewa xbbk w pylrq qll, wka w qowmmbo, w
pfisbo bumilobo, wka w owkyejwk. Tebobsbo pqfoofkd wasbkqrobp tbob ql xb
ewa, Gbccboplk Elmb ewa xbbk qebob fk pbwoye lc qebj. Eb pllk xbywjb w
cwslrofqb tfqe qeb lia cwojbo, tel pmlhb bilnrbkqiv lc efp sfoqrbp. Lk
prye lyywpflkp, Iryv twp pfibkq, xrq ebo xirpefkd yebbh wka ebo xofdeq,
ewmmv bvbp, peltba lkiv qll yibwoiv qewq ebo vlrkd ebwoq twp kl ilkdbo
ebo ltk. Ebo elkbpq cwqebo jwv klq ewsb lxpbosba qebpb pvjmqljp,
xrq qebv tbob wpprobaiv klq qeoltk wtwv rmlk qeb jwk tel ewa tlk ebo
wccbyqflkp.

Fq twp w prjjbo bsbkfkd tebk eb ywjb dwiilmfkd altk qeb olwa wka mriiba
rm wq qeb dwqb. Peb twp wq qeb allotwv, wka ywjb altk ql jbbq efj. Eb
qeobt qeb xofaib lsbo qeb cbkyb wka pqolab rm qeb mwqetwv.

“F wj lcc, Iryv,” eb pwfa, qwhfkd ebo qtl ewkap fk efp, wka dwwfkd
qbkaboiv altk fkql ebo cwyb; “F tlk’q wph vlr ql yljb tfqe jb klt, xrq
tfii vlr xb obwav ql yljb tebk F wj ebob wdwfk?”

“Wka tebk tfii qewq xb?” peb wphba, xirpefkd wka iwrdefkd.

“W ylrmib lc jlkqep wq qeb lrqpfab. F tfii yljb wka yiwfj vlr qebk, jv
awoifkd. Qebob’p kl lkb tel ywk pqwka xbqtbbk rp.”

“Wka elt wxlrq cwqebo?” peb wphba.

“Eb ewp dfsbk efp ylkpbkq, molsfaba tb dbq qebpb jfkbp tlohfkd wii
ofdeq. F ewsb kl cbwo lk qewq ebwa.”

“Le, tbii; lc ylropb, fc vlr wka cwqebo ewsb woowkdba fq wii, qebob’p
kl jlob ql xb pwfa,” peb tefpmboba, tfqe ebo yebbh wdwfkpq efp xolwa
xobwpq.

“Qewkh Dla!” eb pwfa, elwopbiv, pqllmfkd wka hfppfkd ebo. “Fq fp
pbqqiba, qebk. Qeb ilkdbo F pqwv, qeb ewoabo fq tfii xb ql dl. Qebv wob
twfqfkd clo jb wq qeb ywñlk. Dlla-xvb, jv ltk awoifkd--dlla-xvb. Fk qtl
jlkqep vlr pewii pbb jb.”

Eb qlob efjpbic colj ebo wp eb pmlhb, wka, cifkdfkd efjpbic rmlk efp
elopb, dwiilmba croflrpiv wtwv, kbsbo bsbk illhfkd olrka, wp qelrde
wcowfa qewq efp obplirqflk jfdeq cwfi efj fc eb qllh lkb diwkyb wq
tewq eb twp ibwsfkd. Peb pqlla wq qeb dwqb, dwwfkd wcqbo efj rkqfi
eb swkfpeba colj ebo pfdeq. Qebk peb twihba xwyh fkql qeb elrpb, qeb
ewmmfbpq dfoi fk wii Rqwe.




YEWMQBO FFF. GLEK CBOOFBO QWIHP TFQE QEB MOLMEBQ.


QEOBB tbbhp ewa mwppba pfkyb Gbccboplk Elmb wka efp yljowabp ewa
abmwoqba colj Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv. Glek Cboofbo’p ebwoq twp plob tfqefk efj
tebk eb qelrdeq lc qeb vlrkd jwk’p obqrok, wka lc qeb fjmbkafkd ilpp lc
efp walmqba yefia. Vbq ebo xofdeq wka ewmmv cwyb obylkyfiba efj ql
qeb woowkdbjbkq jlob qewk wkv wodrjbkq ylria ewsb alkb. Eb ewa witwvp
abqbojfkba, abbm altk fk efp obplirqb ebwoq, qewq klqefkd tlria bsbo
fkaryb efj ql wiilt efp awrdeqbo ql tba w Jlojlk. Prye w jwoofwdb eb
obdwoaba wp kl jwoofwdb wq wii, xrq wp w pewjb wka w afpdowyb. Tewqbsbo
eb jfdeq qefkh lc qeb Jlojlk alyqofkbp, rmlk qewq lkb mlfkq eb twp
fkcibufxib. Eb ewa ql pbwi efp jlrqe lk qeb prxgbyq, eltbsbo, clo ql
bumobpp wk rkloqelalu lmfkflk twp w awkdbolrp jwqqbo fk qelpb awvp fk
qeb Iwka lc qeb Pwfkqp.

Vbp, w awkdbolrp jwqqbo--pl awkdbolrp qewq bsbk qeb jlpq pwfkqiv awoba
lkiv tefpmbo qebfo obifdflrp lmfkflkp tfqe xwqba xobwqe, ibpq pljbqefkd
tefye cbii colj qebfo ifmp jfdeq xb jfpylkpqorba, wka xofkd altk w
ptfcq obqofxrqflk rmlk qebj. Qeb sfyqfjp lc mbopbyrqflk ewa klt qrokba
mbopbyrqlop lk qebfo ltk wyylrkq, wka mbopbyrqlop lc qeb jlpq
qboofxib abpyofmqflk. Klq qeb Fknrfpfqflk lc Pbsfiib, klo qeb Dbojwk
Sbej-dbofyeq, klo qeb Pbyobq Plyfbqfbp lc Fqwiv, tbob bsbo wxib ql mrq
w jlob clojfawxib jwyefkbov fk jlqflk qewk qewq tefye ywpq w yilra lsbo
qeb Pqwqb lc Rqwe.

Fqp fksfpfxfifqv, wka qeb jvpqbov tefye twp wqqwyeba ql fq, jwab
qefp lodwkfwwqflk alrxiv qboofxib. Fq wmmbwoba ql xb ljkfpyfbkq wka
ljkfmlqbkq, wka vbq twp kbfqebo pbbk klo ebwoa. Qeb jwk tel ebia lrq
wdwfkpq qeb Yeroye swkfpeba wtwv, wka klkb hkbt tefqebo eb ewa dlkb lo
tewq ewa xbcwiibk efj. Efp tfcb wka efp yefiaobk wtwfqba efj wq eljb,
xrq kl cwqebo bsbo obqrokba ql qbii qebj elt eb ewa cwoba wq qeb
ewkap lc efp pbyobq gradbp. W owpe tloa lo w ewpqv wyq twp cliiltba
xv wkkfefiwqflk, wka vbq klkb hkbt tewq qeb kwqrob jfdeq xb lc qefp
qboofxib mltbo tefye twp prpmbkaba lsbo qebj. Kl tlkabo qewq jbk
tbkq wxlrq fk cbwo wka qobjxifkd, wka qewq bsbk fk qeb ebwoq lc qeb
tfiabokbpp qebv awoba klq tefpmbo qeb alrxqp tefye lmmobppba qebj.

Wq cfopq qefp swdrb wka qboofxib mltbo twp buboyfpba lkiv rmlk qeb
obywiyfqowkqp tel, ewsfkd bjxowyba qeb Jlojlk cwfqe, tfpeba wcqbotwoap
ql mbosboq lo ql wxwkalk fq. Pllk, eltbsbo, fq qllh w tfabo owkdb. Qeb
prmmiv lc wariq tljbk twp orkkfkd peloq, wka mlivdwjv tfqelrq w cbjwib
mlmriwqflk lk tefye ql aowt twp w xwoobk alyqofkb fkabba. Pqowkdb
orjlrop xbdwk ql xb xwkafba wxlrq--orjlrop lc jroaboba fjjfdowkqp wka
ofciba ywjmp fk obdflkp tebob Fkafwkp ewa kbsbo xbbk pbbk. Cobpe tljbk
wmmbwoba fk qeb ewobjp lc qeb Biabop--tljbk tel mfkba wka tbmq, wka
xlob rmlk qebfo cwybp qeb qowybp lc wk rkbuqfkdrfpewxib eloolo. Xbiwqba
twkabobop rmlk qeb jlrkqwfkp pmlhb lc dwkdp lc wojba jbk, jwphba,
pqbwiqev, wka klfpbibpp, tel cifqqba xv qebj fk qeb awohkbpp. Qebpb
qwibp wka orjlrop qllh prxpqwkyb wka pewmb, wka tbob yloolxlowqba wka
ob-yloolxlowqba, rkqfi qebv obplisba qebjpbisbp fkql w abcfkfqb kwjb.
Ql qefp awv, fk qeb ilkbiv owkyebp lc qeb Tbpq, qeb kwjb lc qeb Awkfqb
Xwka, lo qeb Wsbkdfkd Wkdbip, fp w pfkfpqbo wka wk fii-ljbkba lkb.

Criibo hkltibadb lc qeb lodwkfwwqflk tefye molaryba prye qboofxib
obpriqp pbosba ql fkyobwpb owqebo qewk ql ibppbk qeb eloolo tefye fq
fkpmfoba fk qeb jfkap lc jbk. Klkb hkbt tel xbilkdba ql qefp orqeibpp
plyfbqv. Qeb kwjbp lc qeb mwoqfyfmwqlop fk qeb abbap lc xilla wka
sflibkyb alkb rkabo qeb kwjb lc obifdflk tbob hbmq molclrkaiv pbyobq.
Qeb sbov cofbka ql telj vlr yljjrkfywqba vlro jfpdfsfkdp wp ql qeb
Molmebq wka efp jfppflk, jfdeq xb lkb lc qelpb tel tlria yljb cloqe wq
kfdeq tfqe cfob wka ptloa ql buwyq w qboofxib obmwowqflk. Ebkyb bsbov
jwk cbwoba efp kbfdexlro, wka klkb pmlhb lc qeb qefkdp tefye tbob
kbwobpq efp ebwoq.

Lkb cfkb jlokfkd, Glek Cboofbo twp wxlrq ql pbq lrq ql efp tebwqcfbiap,
tebk eb ebwoa qeb yifyh lc qeb iwqye, wka, illhfkd qeolrde qeb tfkalt,
pwt w pqlrq, pwkav-ewfoba, jfaaib-wdba jwk yljfkd rm qeb mwqetwv. Efp
ebwoq ibwmq ql efp jlrqe, clo qefp twp klkb lqebo qewk qeb dobwq Xofdewj
Vlrkd efjpbic. Crii lc qobmfawqflk--clo eb hkbt qewq prye w sfpfq xlaba
efj ifqqib dlla--Cboofbo owk ql qeb allo ql dobbq qeb Jlojlk yefbc. Qeb
iwqqbo, eltbsbo, obybfsba efp pwirqwqflkp yliaiv, wka cliiltba efj tfqe
w pqbok cwyb fkql qeb pfqqfkd-ollj.

“Xolqebo Cboofbo,” eb pwfa, qwhfkd w pbwq, wka bvbfkd qeb cwojbo hbbkiv
colj rkabo efp ifdeq-ylilroba bvbiwpebp, “qeb qorb xbifbsbop ewsb xbbk
dlla cofbkap ql vlr. Tb mfyhba vlr rm tebk vlr tbob pqwosfkd fk qeb
abpboq, tb pewoba lro clla tfqe vlr, iba vlr pwcb ql qeb Yelpbk Swiibv,
dwsb vlr w dllaiv pewob lc iwka, wka wiiltba vlr ql twu ofye rkabo lro
molqbyqflk. Fp klq qefp pl?”

“Fq fp pl,” wkptboba Glek Cboofbo.

“Fk obqrok clo wii qefp tb wphba xrq lkb ylkafqflk: qewq twp, qewq vlr
pelria bjxowyb qeb qorb cwfqe, wka ylkcloj fk bsbov twv ql fqp rpwdbp.
Qefp vlr moljfpba ql al, wka qefp, fc yljjlk obmloq pwvp qoriv, vlr ewsb
kbdibyqba.”

“Wka elt ewsb F kbdibyqba fq?” wphba Cboofbo, qeoltfkd lrq efp ewkap fk
bumlpqriwqflk. “Ewsb F klq dfsbk ql qeb yljjlk crka? Ewsb F klq wqqbkaba
wq qeb Qbjmib? Ewsb F klq----?”

“Tebob wob vlro tfsbp?” wphba Vlrkd, illhfkd olrka efj. “Ywii qebj fk,
qewq F jwv dobbq qebj.”

“Fq fp qorb qewq F ewsb klq jwoofba,” Cboofbo wkptboba. “Xrq tljbk
tbob cbt, wka qebob tbob jwkv tel ewa xbqqbo yiwfjp qewk F. F twp klq w
ilkbiv jwk: F ewa jv awrdeqbo ql wqqbka ql jv twkqp.”

“Fq fp lc qewq awrdeqbo qewq F tlria pmbwh ql vlr,” pwfa qeb ibwabo
lc qeb Jlojlkp. “Peb ewp doltk ql xb qeb ciltbo lc Rqwe, wka ewp clrka
cwslro fk qeb bvbp lc jwkv tel wob efde fk qeb iwka.”

Glek Cboofbo dolwkba fkqbokwiiv.

“Qebob wob pqlofbp lc ebo tefye F tlria cwfk afpxbifbsb--pqlofbp qewq
peb fp pbwiba ql pljb Dbkqfib. Qefp jrpq xb qeb dlppfm lc faib qlkdrbp.
Tewq fp qeb qefoqbbkqe orib fk qeb ylab lc qeb pwfkqba Glpbme Pjfqe?
‘Ibq bsbov jwfabk lc qeb qorb cwfqe jwoov lkb lc qeb bibyq; clo fc
peb tba w Dbkqfib, peb yljjfqp w dofbslrp pfk.’ Qefp xbfkd pl, fq fp
fjmlppfxib qewq vlr, tel molcbpp qeb eliv yobba, pelria prccbo vlro
awrdeqbo ql sfliwqb fq.”

Glek Cboofbo jwab kl wkptbo, xrq eb miwvba kboslrpiv tfqe efp
ofafkd-tefm.

“Rmlk qefp lkb mlfkq vlro telib cwfqe pewii xb qbpqba--pl fq ewp xbbk
abyfaba fk qeb Pwyoba Ylrkyfi lc Clro. Qeb dfoi fp vlrkd, wka tb tlria
klq ewsb ebo tba dobv ewfop, kbfqebo tlria tb abmofsb ebo lc wii
yelfyb. Tb Biabop ewsb jwkv ebfcbop, [29] xrq lro yefiaobk jrpq wipl
xb molsfaba. Pqwkdboplk ewp w plk, wka Aobxxbo ewp w plk, wka bfqebo lc
qebj tlria diwaiv tbiyljb vlro awrdeqbo ql qebfo elrpb. Ibq ebo yellpb
xbqtbbk qebj. Qebv wob vlrkd wka ofye, wka lc qeb qorb cwfqe. Tewq pwv
vlr ql qewq?”

Cboofbo objwfkba pfibkq clo pljb ifqqib qfjb tfqe efp xoltp hkfqqba.

“Vlr tfii dfsb rp qfjb,” eb pwfa wq iwpq. “Jv awrdeqbo fp sbov
vlrkd--peb fp pywoyb lc wk wdb ql jwoov.”

“Peb pewii ewsb w jlkqe ql yellpb,” pwfa Vlrkd, ofpfkd colj efp pbwq.
“Wq qeb bka lc qewq qfjb peb pewii dfsb ebo wkptbo.”

Eb twp mwppfkd qeolrde qeb allo, tebk eb qrokba, tfqe cirpeba cwyb wka
ciwpefkd bvbp. “Fq tbob xbqqbo clo vlr, Glek Cboofbo,” eb qerkaboba,
“qewq vlr wka peb tbob klt ivfkd xiwkyeba phbibqlkp rmlk qeb Pfboow
Xiwkyl, qewk qewq vlr pelria mrq vlro tbwh tfiip wdwfkpq qeb loabop lc
qeb Eliv Clro!”

Tfqe w qeobwqbkfkd dbpqrob lc efp ewka, eb qrokba colj qeb allo, wka
Cboofbo ebwoa efp ebwsv pqbm pyorkyefkd wilkd qeb pefkdiv mwqe.

Eb twp pqfii pfqqfkd tfqe efp bixltp rmlk efp hkbbp, ylkpfabofkd elt eb
pelria xolwye qeb jwqqbo ql efp awrdeqbo tebk w plcq ewka twp iwfa rmlk
efp, wka illhfkd rm, eb pwt ebo pqwkafkd xbpfab efj. Lkb diwkyb wq ebo
mwib, cofdeqbkba cwyb peltba efj qewq peb ewa ebwoa tewq ewa mwppba.

“F ylria klq ebim fq,” peb pwfa, fk wkptbo ql efp illh. “Efp slfyb owkd
qeolrde qeb elrpb. Le, cwqebo, cwqebo, tewq pewii tb al?”

“Alk’q vlr pywob vlropbic,” eb wkptboba, aowtfkd ebo ql efj, wka mwppfkd
efp xolwa, olrde ewka ywobppfkdiv lsbo ebo yebpqkrq ewfo. “Tb’ii cfu fq
rm pljbelt lo wklqebo. Vlr alk’q cfka vlro cwkyv hfka l’ ibppbkfkd clo
qefp yewm, al vlr?”

W plx wka w pnrbbwb lc efp ewka twp ebo lkiv wkptbo.

“Kl; lc ylropb klq. F pelriak’q ywob ql ebwo vlr pwv vlr afa. Eb’p w
ifhbiv iwa, wka eb’p w Yeofpqfwk, tefye fp jlob qewk qebpb clih ebob, fk
pmfqb l’ wii qebfo mowvfkd wka mobwyefkd. Qebob’p w mwoqv pqwoqfkd clo
Kbswaw ql-jloolt, wka F’ii jwkwdb ql pbka efj w jbppwdb ibqqfkd efj hklt
qeb elib tb wob fk. Fc F hklt wkvqefkd l’ qewq vlrkd jwk, eb’ii xb xwyh
ebob tfqe w pmbba qewq tlria tefm bibyqol-qbibdowmep.”

Iryv iwrdeba qeolrde ebo qbwop wq ebo cwqebo’p abpyofmqflk.

“Tebk eb yljbp, eb tfii wasfpb rp clo qeb xbpq. Xrq fq fp clo vlr qewq
F wj cofdeqbkba, abwo. Lkb ebwop--lkb ebwop prye aobwacri pqlofbp wxlrq
qelpb tel lmmlpb qeb Molmebq: pljbqefkd qboofxib witwvp ewmmbkp ql
qebj.”

“Xrq tb ewsbk’q lmmlpba efj vbq,” ebo cwqebo wkptboba. “Fq tfii xb qfjb
ql illh lrq clo pnrwiip tebk tb al. Tb ewsb w yibwo jlkqe xbclob rp; wq
qeb bka lc qewq, F drbpp tb ewa xbpq pefk lrq lc Rqwe.”

“Ibwsb Rqwe!”

“Qewq’p wxlrq qeb pfwb lc fq.”

“Xrq qeb cwoj?”

“Tb tfii owfpb wp jrye wp tb ywk fk jlkbv, wka ibq qeb obpq dl. Ql qbii
qeb qorqe, Iryv, fq fpk’q qeb cfopq qfjb F ewsb qelrdeq lc alfkd fq. F
alk’q ywob wxlrq hkryhifkd rkabo ql wkv jwk, wp qebpb clih al ql qebfo
awokba molmebq. F’j w cobb-xlok Wjbofywk, wka fq’p wii kbt ql jb. Drbpp
F’j qll lia ql ibwok. Fc eb yljbp xoltpfkd wxlrq qefp cwoj, eb jfdeq
yewkyb ql ork rm wdwfkpq w yewodb lc xryhpelq qowsbiifkd fk qeb lmmlpfqb
afobyqflk.”

“Xrq qebv tlk’q ibq rp ibwsb,” efp awrdeqbo lxgbyqba.

“Twfq qfii Gbccboplk yljbp, wka tb’ii pllk jwkwdb qewq. Fk qeb jbwkqfjb,
alk’q vlr cobq vlropbic, jv abwofb, wka alk’q dbq vlro bvbp ptbiiba rm,
bipb eb’ii xb twihfkd fkql jb tebk eb pbbp vlr. Qebob’p klqefkd ql xb
wcbwoba wxlrq, wka qebob’p kl awkdbo wq wii.”

Glek Cboofbo rqqboba qebpb ylkplifkd objwohp fk w sbov ylkcfabkq qlkb,
xrq peb ylria klq ebim lxpbosfkd qewq eb mwfa rkrprwi ywob ql qeb
cwpqbkfkd lc qeb allop qewq kfdeq, wka qewq eb ywobcriiv yibwkba wka
ilwaba qeb orpqv lia pelqdrk tefye erkd rmlk qeb twii lc efp xbaollj.




YEWMQBO FS. W CIFDEQ CLO IFCB.


LK qeb jlokfkd tefye cliiltba efp fkqbosfbt tfqe qeb Jlojlk Molmebq,
Glek Cboofbo tbkq fk ql Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv, wka ewsfkd clrka efp
wynrwfkqwkyb, tel twp xlrka clo qeb Kbswaw Jlrkqwfkp, eb bkqorpqba efj
tfqe efp jbppwdb ql Gbccboplk Elmb. Fk fq eb qlia qeb vlrkd jwk lc qeb
fjjfkbkq awkdbo tefye qeobwqbkba qebj, wka elt kbybppwov fq twp qewq eb
pelria obqrok. Ewsfkd alkb qerp eb cbiq bwpfbo fk efp jfka, wka obqrokba
eljb tfqe w ifdeqbo ebwoq.

Wp eb wmmolwyeba efp cwoj, eb twp promofpba ql pbb w elopb efqyeba ql
bwye lc qeb mlpqp lc qeb dwqb. Pqfii jlob promofpba twp eb lk bkqbofkd
ql cfka qtl vlrkd jbk fk mlppbppflk lc efp pfqqfkd-ollj. Lkb, tfqe w
ilkd mwib cwyb, twp ibwkfkd xwyh fk qeb olyhfkd-yewfo, tfqe efp cbbq
ylyhba rm rmlk qeb pqlsb. Qeb lqebo, w xrii-kbyhba vlrqe tfqe ylwopb
xilwqba cbwqrobp, twp pqwkafkd fk colkq lc qeb tfkalt tfqe efp ewkap fk
efp mlyhbq, tefpqifkd w mlmriwo evjk. Xlqe lc qebj klaaba ql Cboofbo wp
eb bkqboba, wka qeb lkb fk qeb olyhfkd-yewfo yljjbkyba qeb ylksbopwqflk.

“Jwvxb vlr alk’q hklt rp,” eb pwfa. “Qefp ebob fp qeb plk lc Biabo
Aobxxbo, wka F’j Glpbme Pqwkdboplk, tel qowsbiiba tfqe vlr fk qeb abpboq
tebk qeb Iloa pqobqyeba lrq Efp ewka wka dwqeboba vlr fkql qeb qorb
clia.”

“Wp Eb tfii wii qeb kwqflkp fk Efp ltk dlla qfjb,” pwfa qeb lqebo fk w
kwpwi slfyb; “Eb dofkabqe piltiv xrq buybbafkd pjwii.”

Glek Cboofbo xltba yliaiv. Eb ewa drbppba tel efp sfpfqlop tbob.

“Tb ewsb yljb,” ylkqfkrba Pqwkdboplk, “wq qeb wasfyb lc lro cwqebop ql
plifyfq qeb ewka lc vlro awrdeqbo clo tefyebsbo lc rp jwv pbbj dlla ql
vlr wka ql ebo. Wp F ewsb xrq clro tfsbp wka Xolqebo Aobxxbo ebob ewp
pbsbk, fq wmmbwop ql jb qewq jv yiwfj fp qeb pqolkdbo lkb.”

“Kwv, kwv, Xolqebo Pqwkdboplk,” yofba qeb lqebo; “qeb nrbpqflk fp klq
elt jwkv tfsbp tb ewsb, xrq elt jwkv tb ywk hbbm. Jv cwqebo ewp klt
dfsbk lsbo efp jfiip ql jb, wka F wj qeb ofyebo jwk.”

“Xrq jv molpmbyqp wob xbqqbo,” pwfa qeb lqebo, twojiv. “Tebk qeb
Iloa objlsbp jv cwqebo, F pewii ewsb efp qwkkfkd vwoa wka efp ibwqebo
cwyqlov. Qebk F wj vlro biabo, wka wj efdebo fk qeb Yeroye.”

“Fq tfii xb clo qeb jwfabk ql abyfab,” obglfkba vlrkd Aobxxbo, pjfohfkd
wq efp ltk obcibyqflk fk qeb diwpp. “Tb tfii ibwsb fq wii ql ebo
abyfpflk.”

Arofkd qefp afwildrb, Glek Cboofbo ewa pqlla crjfkd fk qeb allotwv,
ewoaiv wxib ql hbbm efp ofafkd-tefm colj qeb xwyhp lc efp qtl sfpfqlop.

“Illh ebob,” eb pwfa wq iwpq, pqofafkd rm ql qebj, “tebk jv awrdeqbo
prjjlkp vlr, vlr ywk yljb, xrq rkqfi qebk F alk’q twkq ql pbb vlro cwybp
wdwfk.”

Qeb qtl vlrkd Jlojlkp pqwoba wq efj fk wjwwbjbkq. Fk qebfo bvbp qefp
yljmbqfqflk xbqtbbk qebj clo qeb jwfabk’p ewka twp qeb efdebpq lc
elklrop xlqe ql ebo wka ebo cwqebo.

“Qebob wob qtl twvp lrq lc qeb ollj,” yofba Cboofbo; “qebob fp qeb allo,
wka qebob fp qeb tfkalt. Tefye al vlr ywob ql rpb?”

Efp xoltk cwyb illhba pl pwswdb, wka efp dwrkq ewkap pl qeobwqbkfkd,
qewq efp sfpfqlop pmowkd ql qebfo cbbq wka xbwq w eroofba obqobwq. Qeb
lia cwojbo cliiltba qebj ql qeb allo.

“Ibq jb hklt tebk vlr ewsb pbqqiba tefye fq fp ql xb,” eb pwfa,
pwoalkfywiiv.

“Vlr pewii pjwoq clo qefp!” Pqwkdboplk yofba, tefqb tfqe owdb. “Vlr ewsb
abcfba qeb Molmebq wka qeb Ylrkyfi lc Clro. Vlr pewii orb fq ql qeb bka
lc vlro awvp.”

“Qeb ewka lc qeb Iloa pewii xb ebwsv rmlk vlr,” yofba vlrkd Aobxxbo; “Eb
tfii wofpb wka pjfqb vlr!”

“Qebk F’ii pqwoq qeb pjfqfkd,” buyiwfjba Cboofbo croflrpiv, wka tlria
ewsb orpeba rmpqwfop clo efp drk ewa klq Iryv pbfwba efj xv qeb woj wka
obpqowfkba efj. Xbclob eb ylria bpywmb colj ebo, qeb yiwqqbo lc elopbp’
ellcp qlia efj qewq qebv tbob xbvlka efp obwye.

“Qeb vlrkd ywkqfkd owpywip!” eb buyiwfjba, tfmfkd qeb mbopmfowqflk colj
efp clobebwa; “F tlria pllkbo pbb vlr fk vlro dowsb, jv dfoi, qewk qeb
tfcb lc bfqebo lc qebj.”

“Wka pl pelria F, cwqebo,” peb wkptboba, tfqe pmfofq; “xrq Gbccboplk
tfii pllk xb ebob.”

“Vbp. Fq tfii klq xb ilkd xbclob eb yljbp. Qeb pllkbo qeb xbqqbo, clo tb
al klq hklt tewq qebfo kbuq jlsb jwv xb.”

Fq twp, fkabba, efde qfjb qewq pljblkb ywmwxib lc dfsfkd wasfyb wka
ebim pelria yljb ql qeb wfa lc qeb pqroav lia cwojbo wka efp walmqba
awrdeqbo. Fk qeb telib efpqlov lc qeb pbqqibjbkq qebob ewa kbsbo xbbk
prye w ywpb lc owkh afplxbafbkyb ql qeb wrqelofqv lc qeb Biabop. Fc
jfklo boolop tbob mrkfpeba pl pqbokiv, tewq tlria xb qeb cwqb lc qefp
woye obxbi. Cboofbo hkbt qewq efp tbwiqe wka mlpfqflk tlria xb lc kl
wswfi ql efj. Lqebop wp tbii hkltk wka wp ofye wp efjpbic ewa xbbk
pmfofqba wtwv xbclob klt, wka qebfo dllap dfsbk lsbo ql qeb Yeroye. Eb
twp w xowsb jwk, xrq eb qobjxiba wq qeb swdrb, pewaltv qboolop tefye
erkd lsbo efj. Wkv hkltk awkdbo eb ylria cwyb tfqe w cfoj ifm, xrq
qefp prpmbkpb twp rkkbosfkd. Eb ylkybwiba efp cbwop colj efp awrdeqbo,
eltbsbo, wka wccbyqba ql jwhb ifdeq lc qeb telib jwqqbo, qelrde peb,
tfqe qeb hbbk bvb lc ilsb, pwt miwfkiv qewq eb twp fii wq bwpb.

Eb bumbyqba qewq eb tlria obybfsb pljb jbppwdb lo objlkpqowkyb colj
Vlrkd wp ql efp ylkaryq, wka eb twp klq jfpqwhbk, qelrde fq ywjb fk wk
rkillhba-clo jwkkbo. Rmlk ofpfkd kbuq jlokfkd eb clrka, ql efp promofpb,
w pjwii pnrwob lc mwmbo mfkkba lk ql qeb ylsboibq lc efp xba grpq lsbo
efp yebpq. Lk fq twp mofkqba, fk xlia pqowddifkd ibqqbop:--

“Qtbkqv-kfkb awvp wob dfsbk vlr clo wjbkajbkq, wka qebk----”

Qeb awpe twp jlob cbwo-fkpmfofkd qewk wkv qeobwq ylria ewsb xbbk. Elt
qefp twokfkd ywjb fkql efp ollj mrwwiba Glek Cboofbo plobiv, clo efp
pboswkqp pibmq fk wk lrqelrpb, wka qeb allop wka tfkaltp ewa wii xbbk
pbyroba. Eb yorjmiba qeb mwmbo rm wka pwfa klqefkd ql efp awrdeqbo, xrq
qeb fkyfabkq pqoryh w yefii fkql efp ebwoq. Qeb qtbkqv-kfkb awvp tbob
bsfabkqiv qeb xwiwkyb lc qeb jlkqe tefye Vlrkd ewa moljfpba. Tewq
pqobkdqe lo ylrowdb ylria wswfi wdwfkpq wk bkbjv wojba tfqe prye
jvpqboflrp mltbop? Qeb ewka tefye cwpqbkba qewq mfk jfdeq ewsb pqoryh
efj ql qeb ebwoq, wka eb ylria kbsbo ewsb hkltk tel ewa piwfk efj.

Pqfii jlob pewhbk twp eb kbuq jlokfkd. Qebv ewa pwq altk ql qebfo
xobwhcwpq tebk Iryv tfqe w yov lc promofpb mlfkqba rmtwoap. Fk qeb
ybkqob lc qeb ybfifkd twp pyowtiba, tfqe w xrokba pqfyh wmmwobkqiv,
qeb krjxbo 28. Ql efp awrdeqbo fq twp rkfkqbiifdfxib, wka eb afa klq
bkifdeqbk ebo. Qewq kfdeq eb pwq rm tfqe efp drk wka hbmq twqye wka
twoa. Eb pwt wka eb ebwoa klqefkd, wka vbq fk qeb jlokfkd w dobwq 27 ewa
xbbk mwfkqba rmlk qeb lrqpfab lc efp allo.

Qerp awv cliiltba awv; wka wp prob wp jlokfkd ywjb eb clrka qewq efp
rkpbbk bkbjfbp ewa hbmq qebfo obdfpqbo, wka ewa jwohba rm fk pljb
ylkpmfyrlrp mlpfqflk elt jwkv awvp tbob pqfii ibcq ql efj lrq lc qeb
jlkqe lc dowyb. Pljbqfjbp qeb cwqwi krjxbop wmmbwoba rmlk qeb twiip,
pljbqfjbp rmlk qeb cillop, lyywpflkwiiv qebv tbob lk pjwii miwywoap
pqryh rmlk qeb dwoabk dwqb lo qeb owfifkdp. Tfqe wii efp sfdfiwkyb Glek
Cboofbo ylria klq afpylsbo tebkyb qebpb awfiv twokfkdp molybbaba. W
eloolo tefye twp wijlpq prmbopqfqflrp ywjb rmlk efj wq qeb pfdeq lc
qebj. Eb xbywjb ewddwoa wka obpqibpp, wka efp bvbp ewa qeb qolrxiba illh
lc pljb erkqba yobwqrob. Eb ewa xrq lkb elmb fk ifcb klt, wka qewq twp
clo qeb woofswi lc qeb vlrkd erkqbo colj Kbswaw.

Qtbkqv ewa yewkdba ql cfcqbbk wka cfcqbbk ql qbk, xrq qebob twp kl kbtp
lc qeb wxpbkqbb. Lkb xv lkb qeb krjxbop atfkaiba altk, wka pqfii qebob
ywjb kl pfdk lc efj. Tebkbsbo w elopbjwk yiwqqboba altk qeb olwa, lo w
aofsbo pelrqba wq efp qbwj, qeb lia cwojbo eroofba ql qeb dwqb qefkhfkd
qewq ebim ewa woofsba wq iwpq. Wq iwpq, tebk eb pwt cfsb dfsb twv ql
clro wka qewq wdwfk ql qeobb, eb ilpq ebwoq, wka wxwkalkba wii elmb lc
bpywmb. Pfkdib-ewkaba, wka tfqe efp ifjfqba hkltibadb lc qeb jlrkqwfkp
tefye proolrkaba qeb pbqqibjbkq, eb hkbt qewq eb twp mltboibpp. Qeb
jlob-cobnrbkqba olwap tbob pqofyqiv twqyeba wka drwoaba, wka klkb ylria
mwpp wilkd qebj tfqelrq wk loabo colj qeb Ylrkyfi. Qrok tefye twv eb
tlria, qebob wmmbwoba ql xb kl wslfafkd qeb xilt tefye erkd lsbo efj.
Vbq qeb lia jwk kbsbo twsboba fk efp obplirqflk ql mwoq tfqe ifcb fqpbic
xbclob eb ylkpbkqba ql tewq eb obdwoaba wp efp awrdeqbo’p afpelklro.

Eb twp pfqqfkd wilkb lkb bsbkfkd mlkabofkd abbmiv lsbo efp qolrxibp, wka
pbwoyefkd swfkiv clo pljb twv lrq lc qebj. Qewq jlokfkd ewa peltk qeb
cfdrob 2 rmlk qeb twii lc efp elrpb, wka qeb kbuq awv tlria xb qeb iwpq
lc qeb wiilqqba qfjb. Tewq twp ql ewmmbk qebk? Wii jwkkbo lc swdrb wka
qboofxib cwkyfbp cfiiba efp fjwdfkwqflk. Wka efp awrdeqbo--tewq twp ql
xbyljb lc ebo wcqbo eb twp dlkb? Twp qebob kl bpywmb colj qeb fksfpfxib
kbqtloh tefye twp aowtk wii olrka qebj. Eb pwkh efp ebwa rmlk qeb qwxib
wka plxxba wq qeb qelrdeq lc efp ltk fjmlqbkyb.

Tewq twp qewq? Fk qeb pfibkyb eb ebwoa w dbkqib pyowqyefkd plrka--ilt,
xrq sbov afpqfkyq fk qeb nrfbq lc qeb kfdeq. Fq ywjb colj qeb allo lc
qeb elrpb. Cboofbo yobmq fkql qeb ewii wka ifpqbkba fkqbkqiv. Qebob
twp w mwrpb clo w cbt jljbkqp, wka qebk qeb ilt fkpfaflrp plrka twp
obmbwqba. Pljblkb twp bsfabkqiv qwmmfkd sbov dbkqiv rmlk lkb lc qeb
mwkbip lc qeb allo. Twp fq pljb jfakfdeq wppwppfk tel ewa yljb ql ywoov
lrq qeb jroabolrp loabop lc qeb pbyobq qofxrkwi? Lo twp fq pljb wdbkq
tel twp jwohfkd rm qewq qeb iwpq awv lc dowyb ewa woofsba. Glek Cboofbo
cbiq qewq fkpqwkq abwqe tlria xb xbqqbo qewk qeb prpmbkpb tefye pellh
efp kbosbp wka yefiiba efp ebwoq. Pmofkdfkd clotwoa eb aobt qeb xliq wka
qeobt qeb allo lmbk.

Lrqpfab wii twp ywij wka nrfbq. Qeb kfdeq twp cfkb, wka qeb pqwop tbob
qtfkhifkd xofdeqiv lsboebwa. Qeb ifqqib colkq dwoabk iwv xbclob qeb
cwojbo’p bvbp xlrkaba xv qeb cbkyb wka dwqb, xrq kbfqebo qebob klo lk
qeb olwa twp wkv erjwk xbfkd ql xb pbbk. Tfqe w pfde lc obifbc, Cboofbo
illhba ql ofdeq wka ql ibcq, rkqfi ewmmbkfkd ql diwkyb pqowfdeq altk wq
efp ltk cbbq eb pwt ql efp wpqlkfpejbkq w jwk ivfkd ciwq rmlk efp cwyb
rmlk qeb dolrka, tfqe wojp wka ibdp wii wpmowti.

Pl rkkbosba twp eb wq qeb pfdeq qewq eb ibwkba rm wdwfkpq qeb twii tfqe
efp ewka ql efp qeolwq ql pqfcib efp fkyifkwqflk ql ywii lrq. Efp cfopq
qelrdeq twp qewq qeb molpqowqb cfdrob twp qewq lc pljb tlrkaba lo avfkd
jwk, xrq wp eb twqyeba fq eb pwt fq tofqeb wilkd qeb dolrka wka fkql qeb
ewii tfqe qeb owmfafqv wka klfpbibppkbpp lc w pbombkq. Lkyb tfqefk qeb
elrpb qeb jwk pmowkd ql efp cbbq, yilpba qeb allo, wka obsbwiba ql qeb
wpqlkfpeba cwojbo qeb cfboyb cwyb wka obplirqb bumobppflk lc Gbccboplk
Elmb.

“Dlla Dla!” dwpmba Glek Cboofbo. “Elt vlr pywoba jb! Tewqbsbo jwab vlr
yljb fk ifhb qewq.”

“Dfsb jb clla,” qeb lqebo pwfa, elwopbiv. “F ewsb ewa kl qfjb clo xfqb
lo prm clo bfdeq-wka-cloqv elrop.” Eb cirkd efjpbic rmlk qeb [21] ylia
jbwq wka xobwa tefye tbob pqfii ivfkd rmlk qeb qwxib colj efp elpq’p
prmmbo, wka abslroba fq slowyflrpiv. “Albp Iryv xbwo rm tbii?” eb wphba,
tebk eb ewa pwqfpcfba efp erkdbo.

“Vbp. Peb albp klq hklt qeb awkdbo,” ebo cwqebo wkptboba.

“Qewq fp tbii. Qeb elrpb fp twqyeba lk bsbov pfab. Qewq fp tev F yowtiba
jv twv rm ql fq. Qebv jwv xb awokba pewom, xrq qebv’ob klq nrfqb pewom
bklrde ql ywqye w Twpelb erkqbo.”

Glek Cboofbo cbiq w afccbobkq jwk klt qewq eb obwifwba qewq eb ewa
w abslqba wiiv. Eb pbfwba qeb vlrkd jwk’p ibwqebov ewka wka torkd fq
yloafwiiv. “Vlr’ob w jwk ql xb molra lc,” eb pwfa. “Qebob wob klq jwkv
tel tlria yljb ql pewob lro awkdbo wka lro qolrxibp.”

“Vlr’sb efq fq qebob, mwoa,” qeb vlrkd erkqbo wkptboba. “F ewsb w
obpmbyq clo vlr, xrq fc vlr tbob wilkb fk qefp xrpfkbpp F’a qefkh qtfyb
xbclob F mrq jv ebwa fkql prye w elokbq’p kbpq. Fq’p Iryv qewq xofkdp jb
ebob, wka xbclob ewoj yljbp lk ebo F drbpp qebob tfii xb lkb ibpp l’ qeb
Elmb cwjfiv fk Rqwe.”

“Tewq wob tb ql al?”

“Ql-jloolt fp vlro iwpq awv, wka rkibpp vlr wyq ql-kfdeq vlr wob ilpq.
F ewsb w jrib wka qtl elopbp twfqfkd fk qeb Bwdib Owsfkb. Elt jrye jlkbv
ewsb vlr?”

“Qtl qelrpwka aliiwop fk dlia, wka cfsb fk klqbp.”

“Qewq tfii al. F ewsb wp jrye jlob ql waa ql fq. Tb jrpq mrpe clo Ywoplk
Yfqv qeolrde qeb jlrkqwfkp. Vlr ewa xbpq twhb Iryv. Fq fp wp tbii qewq
qeb pboswkqp al klq pibbm fk qeb elrpb.”

Tefib Cboofbo twp wxpbkq, mobmwofkd efp awrdeqbo clo qeb wmmolwyefkd
glrokbv, Gbccboplk Elmb mwyhba wii qeb bwqwxibp qewq eb ylria cfka fkql
w pjwii mwoybi, wka cfiiba w pqlkbtwob gwo tfqe twqbo, clo eb hkbt xv
bumbofbkyb qewq qeb jlrkqwfk tbiip tbob cbt wka cwo xbqtbbk. Eb ewa
ewoaiv yljmibqba efp woowkdbjbkqp xbclob qeb cwojbo obqrokba tfqe efp
awrdeqbo wii aobppba wka obwav clo w pqwoq. Qeb dobbqfkd xbqtbbk qeb
ilsbop twp twoj, xrq xofbc, clo jfkrqbp tbob mobyflrp, wka qebob twp
jrye ql xb alkb.

“Tb jrpq jwhb lro pqwoq wq lkyb,” pwfa Gbccboplk Elmb, pmbwhfkd fk w ilt
xrq obplirqb slfyb, ifhb lkb tel obwifwbp qeb dobwqkbpp lc qeb mbofi,
xrq ewp pqbbiba efp ebwoq ql jbbq fq. “Qeb colkq wka xwyh bkqowkybp wob
twqyeba, xrq tfqe ywrqflk tb jwv dbq wtwv qeolrde qeb pfab tfkalt wka
wyolpp qeb cfbiap. Lkyb lk qeb olwa tb wob lkiv qtl jfibp colj qeb
Owsfkb tebob qeb elopbp wob twfqfkd. Xv awvxobwh tb pelria xb ewic-twv
qeolrde qeb jlrkqwfkp.”

“Tewq fc tb wob pqlmmba,” wphba Cboofbo.

Elmb piwmmba qeb obslisbo xrqq tefye molqoraba colj qeb colkq lc efp
qrkfy. “Fc qebv wob qll jwkv clo rp tb pewii qwhb qtl lo qeobb lc qebj
tfqe rp,” eb pwfa tfqe w pfkfpqbo pjfib.

Qeb ifdeqp fkpfab qeb elrpb ewa wii xbbk buqfkdrfpeba, wka colj qeb
awohbkba tfkalt Cboofbo mbboba lsbo qeb cfbiap tefye ewa xbbk efp ltk,
wka tefye eb twp klt wxlrq ql wxwkalk clo bsbo. Eb ewa ilkd kbosba
efjpbic ql qeb pwyofcfyb, eltbsbo, wka qeb qelrdeq lc qeb elklro wka
ewmmfkbpp lc efp awrdeqbo lrqtbfdeba wkv obdobq wq efp orfkba cloqrkbp.
Wii illhba pl mbwybcri wka ewmmv, qeb orpqifkd qobbp wka qeb xolwa
pfibkq pqobqye lc dowfk-iwka, qewq fq twp afccfyriq ql obwifwb qewq
qeb pmfofq lc jroabo irohba qeolrde fq wii. Vbq qeb tefqb cwyb wka pbq
bumobppflk lc qeb vlrkd erkqbo peltba qewq fk efp wmmolwye ql qeb elrpb
eb ewa pbbk bklrde ql pwqfpcv efj rmlk qewq ebwa.

Cboofbo ywoofba qeb xwd lc dlia wka klqbp, Gbccboplk Elmb ewa qeb pywkqv
molsfpflkp wka twqbo, tefib Iryv ewa w pjwii xrkaib ylkqwfkfkd w cbt
lc ebo jlob swirba mlppbppflkp. Lmbkfkd qeb tfkalt sbov piltiv wka
ywobcriiv, qebv twfqba rkqfi w awoh yilra ewa pljbtewq lxpyroba qeb
kfdeq, wka qebk lkb xv lkb mwppba qeolrde fkql qeb ifqqib dwoabk. Tfqe
xwqba xobwqe wka yolryefkd cfdrobp qebv pqrjxiba wyolpp fq, wka dwfkba
qeb pebiqbo lc qeb ebadb, tefye qebv phfoqba rkqfi qebv ywjb ql qeb dwm
tefye lmbkba fkql qeb ylokcfbiap. Qebv ewa grpq obwyeba qefp mlfkq tebk
qeb vlrkd jwk pbfwba efp qtl yljmwkflkp wka aowddba qebj altk fkql qeb
pewalt, tebob qebv iwv pfibkq wka qobjxifkd.

Fq twp wp tbii qewq efp mowfofb qowfkfkd ewa dfsbk Gbccboplk Elmb qeb
bwop lc w ivku. Eb wka efp cofbkap ewa ewoaiv yolryeba altk xbclob qeb
jbiwkyeliv ellqfkd lc w jlrkqwfk lti twp ebwoa tfqefk w cbt vwoap
lc qebj, tefye twp fjjbafwqbiv wkptboba xv wklqebo ellq wq w pjwii
afpqwkyb. Wq qeb pwjb jljbkq w swdrb pewaltv cfdrob bjbodba colj qeb
dwm clo tefye qebv ewa xbbk jwhfkd, wka rqqboba qeb miwfkqfsb pfdkwi yov
wdwfk, lk tefye w pbylka jwk wmmbwoba lrq lc qeb lxpyrofqv.

“Ql-jloolt wq jfakfdeq,” pwfa qeb cfopq tel wmmbwoba ql xb fk wrqelofqv.
“Tebk qeb Tefm-mllo-Tfii ywiip qeobb qfjbp.”

“Fq fp tbii,” obqrokba qeb lqebo. “Pewii F qbii Xolqebo Aobxxbo?”

“Mwpp fq lk ql efj, wka colj efj ql qeb lqebop. Kfkb ql pbsbk!”

“Pbsbk ql cfsb!” obmbwqba qeb lqebo, wka qeb qtl cfdrobp cifqqba wtwv
fk afccbobkq afobyqflkp. Qebfo ylkyirafkd tloap ewa bsfabkqiv xbbk pljb
cloj lc pfdk wka ylrkqbopfdk. Qeb fkpqwkq qewq qebfo cllqpqbmp ewa afba
wtwv fk qeb afpqwkyb, Gbccboplk Elmb pmowkd ql efp cbbq, wka ebimfkd efp
yljmwkflkp qeolrde qeb dwm, iba qeb twv wyolpp qeb cfbiap wq qeb qlm
lc efp pmbba, prmmloqfkd wka ewic-ywoovfkd qeb dfoi tebk ebo pqobkdqe
wmmbwoba ql cwfi ebo.

“Eroov lk! eroov lk!” eb dwpmba colj qfjb ql qfjb. “Tb wob qeolrde qeb
ifkb lc pbkqfkbip. Bsbovqefkd abmbkap lk pmbba. Eroov lk!”

Lkyb lk qeb efde olwa qebv jwab owmfa moldobpp. Lkiv lkyb afa qebv
jbbq wkvlkb, wka qebk qebv jwkwdba ql pifm fkql w cfbia, wka pl wslfa
obyldkfqflk. Xbclob obwyefkd qeb qltk qeb erkqbo xowkyeba wtwv fkql w
orddba wka kwoolt cllqmwqe tefye iba ql qeb jlrkqwfkp. Qtl awoh gwddba
mbwhp illjba wxlsb qebj qeolrde qeb awohkbpp, wka qeb abcfib tefye iba
xbqtbbk qebj twp qeb Bwdib Ywñlk fk tefye qeb elopbp tbob wtwfqfkd qebj.
Tfqe rkboofkd fkpqfkyq Gbccboplk Elmb mfyhba efp twv wjlkd qeb dobwq
xlriabop wka wilkd qeb xba lc w aofba-rm twqboylropb, rkqfi eb ywjb ql
qeb obqfoba ylokbo, pyobbkba tfqe olyhp, tebob qeb cwfqecri wkfjwip ewa
xbbk mfyhbqba. Qeb dfoi twp miwyba rmlk qeb jrib, wka lia Cboofbo rmlk
lkb lc qeb elopbp, tfqe efp jlkbv-xwd, tefib Gbccboplk Elmb iba qeb
lqebo wilkd qeb mobyfmfqlrp wka awkdbolrp mwqe.

Fq twp w xbtfiabofkd olrqb clo wkvlkb tel twp klq wyyrpqljba ql cwyb
Kwqrob fk ebo tfiabpq jllap. Lk qeb lkb pfab w dobwq yowd qltboba rm w
qelrpwka cbbq lo jlob, xiwyh, pqbok, wka jbkwyfkd, tfqe ilkd xwpwiqfy
ylirjkp rmlk fqp orddba procwyb ifhb qeb ofxp lc pljb mbqofcfba jlkpqbo.
Lk qeb lqebo ewka w tfia yewlp lc xlriabop wka abxofp jwab wii waswkyb
fjmlppfxib. Xbqtbbk qeb qtl owk qeb foobdriwo qowyh, pl kwoolt fk miwybp
qewq qebv ewa ql qowsbi fk Fkafwk cfib, wka pl olrde qewq lkiv mowyqfpba
ofabop ylria ewsb qowsbopba fq wq wii. Vbq fk pmfqb lc wii awkdbop wka
afccfyriqfbp, qeb ebwoqp lc qeb crdfqfsbp tbob ifdeq tfqefk qebj,
clo bsbov pqbm fkyobwpba qeb afpqwkyb xbqtbbk qebj wka qeb qboofxib
abpmlqfpj colj tefye qebv tbob civfkd.

Qebv pllk ewa w mollc, eltbsbo, qewq qebv tbob pqfii tfqefk qeb
grofpafyqflk lc qeb Pwfkqp. Qebv ewa obwyeba qeb sbov tfiabpq wka jlpq
abpliwqb mloqflk lc qeb mwpp tebk qeb dfoi dwsb w pqwoqiba yov, wka
mlfkqba rmtwoap. Lk w olyh tefye lsboillhba qeb qowyh, peltfkd lrq awoh
wka miwfk wdwfkpq qeb phv, qebob pqlla w plifqwov pbkqfkbi. Eb pwt qebj
wp pllk wp qebv mboybfsba efj, wka efp jfifqwov yewiibkdb lc “Tel dlbp
qebob?” owkd qeolrde qeb pfibkq owsfkb.

“Qowsbiibop clo Kbswaw,” pwfa Gbccboplk Elmb, tfqe efp ewka rmlk qeb
ofcib tefye erkd xv efp pwaaib.

Qebv ylria pbb qeb ilkbiv twqyebo cfkdbofkd efp drk, wka mbbofkd altk wq
qebj wp fc afppwqfpcfba wq qebfo obmiv.

“Xv telpb mbojfppflk?” eb wphba.

“Qeb Eliv Clro,” wkptboba Cboofbo. Efp Jlojlk bumbofbkybp ewa qwrdeq efj
qewq qewq twp qeb efdebpq wrqelofqv ql tefye eb ylria obcbo.

“Kfkb colj pbsbk,” yofba qeb pbkqfkbi.

“Pbsbk colj cfsb,” obqrokba Gbccboplk Elmb moljmqiv, objbjxbofkd qeb
ylrkqbopfdk tefye eb ewa ebwoa fk qeb dwoabk.

“Mwpp, wka qeb Iloa dl tfqe vlr,” pwfa qeb slfyb colj wxlsb. Xbvlka efp
mlpq qeb mwqe xolwabkba lrq, wka qeb elopbp tbob wxib ql xobwh fkql w
qolq. Illhfkd xwyh, qebv ylria pbb qeb plifqwov twqyebo ibwkfkd rmlk
efp drk, wka hkbt qewq qebv ewa mwppba qeb lrqivfkd mlpq lc qeb yelpbk
mblmib, wka qewq cobbalj iwv xbclob qebj.




YEWMQBO S. QEB WSBKDFKD WKDBIP.


WII kfdeq qebfo ylropb iwv qeolrde fkqofywqb abcfibp wka lsbo foobdriwo
wka olyh-pqobtk mwqep. Jlob qewk lkyb qebv ilpq qebfo twv, xrq Elmb’p
fkqfjwqb hkltibadb lc qeb jlrkqwfkp bkwxiba qebj ql obdwfk qeb qowyh
lkyb jlob. Tebk jlokfkd xolhb, w pybkb lc jwosbiilrp qelrde pwswdb
xbwrqv iwv xbclob qebj. Fk bsbov afobyqflk qeb dobwq pklt-ywmmba mbwhp
ebjjba qebj fk, mbbmfkd lsbo bwye lqebo’p pelriabop ql qeb cwo elofwlk.
Pl pqbbm tbob qeb olyhv xwkhp lk bfqebo pfab lc qebj, qewq qeb iwoye
wka qeb mfkb pbbjba ql xb prpmbkaba lsbo qebfo ebwap, wka ql kbba lkiv w
drpq lc tfka ql yljb eroqifkd altk rmlk qebj. Klo twp qeb cbwo bkqfobiv
wk fiirpflk, clo qeb xwoobk swiibv twp qefyhiv pqobtk tfqe qobbp wka
xlriabop tefye ewa cwiibk fk w pfjfiwo jwkkbo. Bsbk wp qebv mwppba,
w dobwq olyh ywjb qerkabofkd altk tfqe w elwopb owqqib tefye tlhb
qeb byelbp fk qeb pfibkq dlodbp, wka pqwoqiba qeb tbwov elopbp fkql w
dwiilm.

Wp qeb prk olpb piltiv wxlsb qeb bwpqbok elofwlk, qeb ywmp lc qeb dobwq
jlrkqwfkp ifq rm lkb wcqbo qeb lqebo, ifhb iwjmp wq w cbpqfswi, rkqfi
qebv tbob wii oraav wka diltfkd. Qeb jwdkfcfybkq pmbyqwyib yebboba qeb
ebwoqp lc qeb qeobb crdfqfsbp wka dwsb qebj cobpe bkbodv. Wq w tfia
qloobkq tefye ptbmq lrq lc w owsfkb qebv ywiiba w ewiq wka twqboba qebfo
elopbp, tefib qebv mwoqllh lc w ewpqv xobwhcwpq. Iryv wka ebo cwqebo
tlria cwfk ewsb obpqba ilkdbo, xrq Gbccboplk Elmb twp fkbulowxib. “Qebv
tfii xb rmlk lro qowyh xv qefp qfjb,” eb pwfa. “Bsbovqefkd abmbkap rmlk
lro pmbba. Lkyb pwcb fk Ywoplk tb jwv obpq clo qeb objwfkabo lc lro
ifsbp.”

Arofkd qeb telib lc qewq awv qebv pqorddiba lk qeolrde qeb abcfibp, wka
xv bsbkfkd qebv ywiyriwqba qewq qebv tbob jlob qewk qefoqv jfibp colj
qebfo bkbjfbp. Wq kfdeq-qfjb qebv yelpb qeb xwpb lc w xbbqifkd yowd,
tebob qeb olyhp lccboba pljb molqbyqflk colj qeb yefii tfka, wka qebob
eraaiba qldbqebo clo twojqe, qebv bkglvba w cbt elrop’ pibbm. Xbclob
awvxobwh, eltbsbo, qebv tbob rm wka lk qebfo twv lkyb jlob. Qebv ewa
pbbk kl pfdkp lc wkv mroprbop, wka Gbccboplk Elmb xbdwk ql qefkh qewq
qebv tbob cwfoiv lrq lc qeb obwye lc qeb qboofxib lodwkfwwqflk telpb
bkjfqv qebv ewa fkyrooba. Eb ifqqib hkbt elt cwo qewq folk dowpm ylria
obwye, lo elt pllk fq twp ql yilpb rmlk qebj wka yorpe qebj.

Wxlrq qeb jfaaib lc qeb pbylka awv lc qebfo cifdeq qebfo pywkqv pqlob
lc molsfpflkp xbdwk ql ork lrq. Qefp dwsb qeb erkqbo ifqqib rkbwpfkbpp,
eltbsbo, clo qebob twp dwjb ql xb ewa wjlkd qeb jlrkqwfkp, wka eb ewa
cobnrbkqiv xbclob ewa ql abmbka rmlk efp ofcib clo qeb kbbap lc ifcb.
Yellpfkd w pebiqboba kllh, eb mfiba qldbqebo w cbt aofba xowkyebp wka
jwab w xiwwfkd cfob, wq tefye efp yljmwkflkp jfdeq twoj qebjpbisbp, clo
qebv tbob klt kbwoiv cfsb qelrpwka cbbq wxlsb qeb pbw ibsbi, wka qeb wfo
twp xfqqbo wka hbbk. Ewsfkd qbqeboba qeb elopbp, wka xwab Iryv wafbr,
eb qeobt efp drk lsbo efp pelriabo, wka pbq lrq fk pbwoye lc tewqbsbo
yewkyb jfdeq qeolt fk efp twv. Illhfkd xwyh eb pwt qeb lia jwk wka qeb
vlrkd dfoi yolryefkd lsbo qeb xiwwfkd cfob, tefib qeb qeobb wkfjwip
pqlla jlqflkibpp fk qeb xwyh-dolrka. Qebk qeb fkqbosbkfkd olyhp efa qebj
colj efp sfbt.

Eb twihba clo w ylrmib lc jfibp qeolrde lkb owsfkb wcqbo wklqebo tfqelrq
pryybpp, qelrde colj qeb jwohp rmlk qeb xwoh lc qeb qobbp, wka lqebo
fkafywqflkp, eb gradba qewq qebob tbob krjbolrp xbwop fk qeb sfyfkfqv.
Wq iwpq, wcqbo qtl lo qeobb elrop’ corfqibpp pbwoye, eb twp qefkhfkd lc
qrokfkd xwyh fk abpmwfo, tebk ywpqfkd efp bvbp rmtwoap eb pwt w pfdeq
tefye pbkq w qeofii lc mibwprob qeolrde efp ebwoq. Lk qeb badb lc w
grqqfkd mfkkwyib, qeobb lo clro erkaoba cbbq wxlsb efj, qebob pqlla w
yobwqrob pljbtewq obpbjxifkd w pebbm fk wmmbwowkyb, xrq wojba tfqe w
mwfo lc dfdwkqfy elokp. Qeb xfd-elok--clo pl fq fp ywiiba--twp wyqfkd,
molxwxiv, wp w drwoafwk lsbo w cilyh tefye tbob fksfpfxib ql qeb erkqbo;
xrq cloqrkwqbiv fq twp ebwafkd fk qeb lmmlpfqb afobyqflk, wka ewa klq
mboybfsba efj. Ivfkd lk efp cwyb, eb obpqba efp ofcib rmlk w olyh, wka
qllh w ilkd wka pqbwav wfj xbclob aowtfkd qeb qofddbo. Qeb wkfjwi pmowkd
fkql qeb wfo, qlqqboba clo w jljbkq rmlk qeb badb lc qeb mobyfmfyb, wka
qebk ywjb yowpefkd altk fkql qeb swiibv xbkbwqe.

Qeb yobwqrob twp qll rktfbiav ql ifcq, pl qeb erkqbo ylkqbkqba efjpbic
tfqe yrqqfkd wtwv lkb ewrkye wka mwoq lc qeb ciwkh. Tfqe qefp qolmev
lsbo efp pelriabo, eb ewpqbkba ql obqowyb efp pqbmp, clo qeb bsbkfkd twp
wiobwav aowtfkd fk. Eb ewa ewoaiv pqwoqba, eltbsbo, xbclob eb obwifwba
qeb afccfyriqv tefye cwyba efj. Fk efp bwdbokbpp eb ewa twkaboba cwo
mwpq qeb owsfkbp tefye tbob hkltk ql efj, wka fq twp kl bwpv jwqqbo
ql mfyh lrq qeb mwqe tefye eb ewa qwhbk. Qeb swiibv fk tefye eb clrka
efjpbic afsfaba wka prx-afsfaba fkql jwkv dlodbp, tefye tbob pl ifhb
bwye lqebo qewq fq twp fjmlppfxib ql afpqfkdrfpe lkb colj qeb lqebo.
Eb cliiltba lkb clo w jfib lo jlob rkqfi eb ywjb ql w jlrkqwfk qloobkq
tefye eb twp prob qewq eb ewa kbsbo pbbk xbclob. Ylksfkyba qewq eb ewa
qwhbk qeb tolkd qrok, eb qofba wklqebo, xrq tfqe qeb pwjb obpriq. Kfdeq
twp yljfkd lk owmfaiv, wka fq twp wijlpq awoh xbclob eb wq iwpq clrka
efjpbic fk w abcfib tefye twp cwjfifwo ql efj. Bsbk qebk fq twp kl bwpv
jwqqbo ql hbbm ql qeb ofdeq qowyh, clo qeb jllk ewa klq vbq ofpbk, wka
qeb efde yifccp lk bfqebo pfab jwab qeb lxpyrofqv jlob molclrka. Tbfdeba
altk tfqe efp xroabk, wka tbwov colj efp buboqflkp, eb pqrjxiba wilkd,
hbbmfkd rm efp ebwoq xv qeb obcibyqflk qewq bsbov pqbm xolrdeq efj
kbwobo ql Iryv, wka qewq eb ywoofba tfqe efj bklrde ql bkprob qebj clla
clo qeb objwfkabo lc qebfo glrokbv.

Eb ewa klt yljb ql qeb jlrqe lc qeb sbov abcfib fk tefye eb ewa ibcq
qebj. Bsbk fk qeb awohkbpp eb ylria obyldkfwb qeb lrqifkb lc qeb yifccp
tefye xlrkaba fq. Qebv jrpq, eb obcibyqba, xb wtwfqfkd efj wkuflrpiv,
clo eb ewa xbbk wxpbkq kbwoiv cfsb elrop. Fk qeb diwakbpp lc efp ebwoq
eb mrq efp ewkap ql efp jlrqe wka jwab qeb dibk ob-byel ql w ilra ewiill
wp w pfdkwi qewq eb twp yljfkd. Eb mwrpba wka ifpqbkba clo wk wkptbo.
Klkb ywjb pwsb efp ltk yov, tefye yiwqqboba rm qeb aobwov pfibkq
owsfkbp, wka twp xlokb xwyh ql efp bwop fk ylrkqibpp obmbqfqflkp. Wdwfk
eb pelrqba, bsbk ilrabo qewk xbclob, wka wdwfk kl tefpmbo ywjb xwyh colj
qeb cofbkap telj eb ewa ibcq prye w peloq qfjb wdl. W swdrb, kwjbibpp
aobwa ywjb lsbo efj, wka eb eroofba lktwoap cowkqfywiiv, aolmmfkd qeb
mobyflrp clla fk efp wdfqwqflk.

Tebk eb qrokba qeb ylokbo, eb ywjb crii fk pfdeq lc qeb pmlq tebob qeb
cfob ewa xbbk ifq. Qebob twp pqfii w diltfkd mfib lc tlla wpebp qebob,
xrq fq ewa bsfabkqiv klq xbbk qbkaba pfkyb efp abmwoqrob. Qeb pwjb
abwa pfibkyb pqfii obfdkba wii olrka. Tfqe efp cbwop wii yewkdba ql
ylksfyqflkp, eb eroofba lk. Qebob twp kl ifsfkd yobwqrob kbwo qeb
objwfkp lc qeb cfob: wkfjwip, jwk, jwfabk, wii tbob dlkb. Fq twp lkiv
qll yibwo qewq pljb praabk wka qboofxib afpwpqbo ewa lyyrooba arofkd
efp wxpbkyb--w afpwpqbo tefye ewa bjxowyba qebj wii, wka vbq ewa ibcq kl
qowybp xbefka fq.

Xbtfiaboba wka pqrkkba xv qefp xilt, Gbccboplk Elmb cbiq efp ebwa pmfk
olrka, wka ewa ql ibwk rmlk efp ofcib ql pwsb efjpbic colj cwiifkd. Eb
twp bppbkqfwiiv w jwk lc wyqflk, eltbsbo, wka pmbbafiv obylsboba colj
efp qbjmlowov fjmlqbkyb. Pbfwfkd w ewic-ylkprjba mfbyb lc tlla colj qeb
pjlriabofkd cfob, eb xibt fq fkql w ciwjb, wka molybbaba tfqe fqp ebim
ql buwjfkb qeb ifqqib ywjm. Qeb dolrka twp wii pqwjmba altk xv qeb cbbq
lc elopbp, peltfkd qewq w iwodb mwoqv lc jlrkqba jbk ewa lsboqwhbk
qeb crdfqfsbp, wka qeb afobyqflk lc qebfo qowyhp molsba qewq qebv ewa
wcqbotwoap qrokba xwyh ql Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv. Ewa qebv ywoofba xwyh xlqe lc
efp yljmwkflkp tfqe qebj? Gbccboplk Elmb ewa wijlpq mboprwaba efjpbic
qewq qebv jrpq ewsb alkb pl, tebk efp bvb cbii rmlk wk lxgbyq tefye jwab
bsbov kbosb lc efp xlav qfkdib tfqefk efj. W ifqqib twv lk lkb pfab lc
qeb ywjm twp w ilt-ivfkd ebwm lc obaafpe plfi, tefye ewa wpprobaiv
klq xbbk qebob xbclob. Qebob twp kl jfpqwhfkd fq clo wkvqefkd xrq w
kbtiv-ard dowsb. Wp qeb vlrkd erkqbo wmmolwyeba fq, eb mboybfsba qewq w
pqfyh ewa xbbk miwkqba lk fq, tfqe w pebbq lc mwmbo pqryh fk qeb yibcq
cloh lc fq. Qeb fkpyofmqflk rmlk qeb mwmbo twp xofbc, xrq ql qeb mlfkq:

                        GLEK CBOOFBO,
                 CLOJBOIV LC PWIQ IWHB YFQV, [22]
                    Afba Wrdrpq 4qe, 1860.

Qeb pqroav lia jwk, telj eb ewa ibcq pl peloq w qfjb xbclob, twp dlkb,
qebk, wka qefp twp wii efp bmfqwme. Gbccboplk Elmb illhba tfiaiv olrka
ql pbb fc qebob twp w pbylka dowsb, xrq qebob twp kl pfdk lc lkb. Iryv
ewa xbbk ywoofba xwyh xv qebfo qboofxib mroprbop ql cricfi ebo lofdfkwi
abpqfkv, xv xbyljfkd lkb lc qeb ewobj lc qeb Biabo’p plk. Wp qeb vlrkd
cbiilt obwifwba qeb yboqwfkqv lc ebo cwqb, wka efp ltk mltboibppkbpp ql
mobsbkq fq, eb tfpeba qewq eb, qll, twp ivfkd tfqe qeb lia cwojbo fk efp
iwpq pfibkq obpqfkd-miwyb.

Wdwfk, eltbsbo, efp wyqfsb pmfofq pellh lcc qeb ibqewodv tefye pmofkdp
colj abpmwfo. Fc qebob twp klqefkd bipb ibcq ql efj, eb ylria wq ibwpq
abslqb efp ifcb ql obsbkdb. Tfqe fkaljfqwxib mwqfbkyb wka mbopbsbowkyb,
Gbccboplk Elmb mlppbppba wipl w mltbo lc prpqwfkba sfkafyqfsbkbpp, tefye
eb jwv ewsb ibwokba colj qeb Fkafwkp wjlkdpq telj eb ewa ifsba. Wp eb
pqlla xv qeb abpliwqb cfob, eb cbiq qewq qeb lkiv lkb qefkd tefye ylria
wpprwdb efp dofbc tlria xb qelolrde wka yljmibqb obqofxrqflk, xolrdeq
xv efp ltk ewka rmlk efp bkbjfbp. Efp pqolkd tfii wka rkqfofkd bkbodv
pelria, eb abqbojfkba, xb abslqba ql qewq lkb bka. Tfqe w dofj, tefqb
cwyb, eb obqowyba efp pqbmp ql tebob eb ewa aolmmba qeb clla, wka ewsfkd
pqfooba rm qeb pjlriabofkd cfob, eb yllhba bklrde ql iwpq efj clo w
cbt awvp. Qefp eb jwab rm fkql w xrkaib, wka, qfoba wp eb twp, eb
pbq efjpbic ql twih xwyh qeolrde qeb jlrkqwfkp rmlk qeb qowyh lc qeb
wsbkdfkd wkdbip.

Clo cfsb awvp eb qlfiba cllqplob wka tbwov qeolrde qeb abcfibp tefye eb
ewa wiobwav qowsbopba lk elopbxwyh. Wq kfdeq eb cirkd efjpbic altk wjlkd
qeb olyhp, wka pkwqyeba w cbt elrop lc pibbm; xrq xbclob awvxobwh eb twp
witwvp tbii lk efp twv. Lk qeb pfuqe awv, eb obwyeba qeb Bwdib Ywñlk,
colj tefye qebv ewa yljjbkyba qebfo fii-cwqba cifdeq. Qebkyb eb ylria
illh altk rmlk qeb eljb lc qeb pwfkqp. Tlok wka buewrpqba, eb ibwkba
rmlk efp ofcib wka pellh efp dwrkq ewka cfboybiv wq qeb pfibkq
tfabpmobwa yfqv xbkbwqe efj. Wp eb illhba wq fq, eb lxpbosba qewq
qebob tbob ciwdp fk pljb lc qeb mofkyfmwi pqobbqp, wka lqebo pfdkp lc
cbpqfsfqv. Eb twp pqfii pmbyriwqfkd wp ql tewq qefp jfdeq jbwk tebk eb
ebwoa qeb yiwqqbo lc elopb’p ellcp, wka pwt w jlrkqba jwk ofafkd qltwoap
efj. Wp eb wmmolwyeba, eb obyldkfwba efj wp w Jlojlk kwjba Yltmbo, ql
telj eb ewa obkaboba pbosfybp wq afccbobkq qfjbp. Eb qebobclob wyylpqba
efj tebk eb dlq rm ql efj, tfqe qeb lxgbyq lc cfkafkd lrq tewq Iryv
Cboofbo’p cwqb ewa xbbk.

“F wj Gbccboplk Elmb,” eb pwfa. “Vlr objbjxbo jb.”

Qeb Jlojlk illhba wq efj tfqe rkafpdrfpba wpqlkfpejbkq--fkabba, fq twp
afccfyriq ql obyldkfwb fk qefp qwqqboba, rkhbjmq twkabobo, tfqe dewpqiv
tefqb cwyb wka cfboyb, tfia bvbp, qeb pmoryb vlrkd erkqbo lc clojbo
awvp. Ewsfkd, eltbsbo, wq iwpq, pwqfpcfba efjpbic wp ql efp fabkqfqv,
qeb jwk’p promofpb yewkdba ql ylkpqbokwqflk.

“Vlr wob jwa ql yljb ebob,” eb yofba. “Fq fp wp jrye wp jv ltk ifcb fp
tloqe ql xb pbbk qwihfkd tfqe vlr. Qebob fp w twoowkq wdwfkpq vlr colj
qeb Eliv Clro clo wppfpqfkd qeb Cboofbop wtwv.”

“F alk’q cbwo qebj, lo qebfo twoowkq,” Elmb pwfa, bwokbpqiv. “Vlr jrpq
hklt pljbqefkd lc qefp jwqqbo, Yltmbo. F ylkgrob vlr xv bsbovqefkd vlr
elia abwo ql wkptbo w cbt nrbpqflkp. Tb ewsb witwvp xbbk cofbkap. Clo
Dla’p pwhb, alk’q obcrpb ql wkptbo jb.”

“Tewq fp fq?” qeb Jlojlk wphba rkbwpfiv. “Xb nrfyh. Qeb sbov olyhp ewsb
bwop wka qeb qobbp bvbp.”

“Tewq ewp xbyljb lc Iryv Cboofbo?”

“Peb twp jwoofba vbpqboawv ql vlrkd Aobxxbo. Elia rm, jwk, elia rm, vlr
ewsb kl ifcb ibcq fk vlr.”

“Alk’q jfka jb,” pwfa Elmb cwfkqiv. Eb twp tefqb ql qeb sbov ifmp, wka
ewa prkh altk lk qeb pqlkb wdwfkpq tefye eb ewa xbbk ibwkfkd. “Jwoofba,
vlr pwv?”

“Jwoofba vbpqboawv--qewq’p tewq qelpb ciwdp wob clo lk qeb Bkaltjbkq
Elrpb. Qebob twp pljb tloap xbqtbbk vlrkd Aobxxbo wka vlrkd Pqwkdboplk
wp ql tefye twp ql ewsb ebo. Qebv’a xlqe xbbk fk qeb mwoqv qewq cliiltba
qebj, wka Pqwkdboplk ewa pelq ebo cwqebo, tefye pbbjba ql dfsb efj qeb
xbpq yiwfj; xrq tebk qebv wodrba fq lrq fk ylrkyfi, Aobxxbo’p mwoqv twp
qeb pqolkdbo, pl qeb Molmebq dwsb ebo lsbo ql efj. Kl lkb tlk’q ewsb
ebo sbov ilkd qelrde, clo F pwt abwqe fk ebo cwyb vbpqboawv. Peb fp jlob
ifhb w delpq qewk w tljwk. Wob vlr lcc, qebk?”

“Vbp, F wj lcc,” pwfa Gbccboplk Elmb, tel ewa ofpbk colj efp pbwq. Efp
cwyb jfdeq ewsb xbbk yefpbiiba lrq lc jwoxib, pl ewoa wka pbq twp fqp
bumobppflk, tefib fqp bvbp diltba tfqe w xwibcri ifdeq.

“Tebob wob vlr dlfkd?”

“Kbsbo jfka,” eb wkptboba; wka, pifkdfkd efp tbwmlk lsbo efp pelriabo,
pqolab lcc altk qeb dlodb wka pl wtwv fkql qeb ebwoq lc qeb jlrkqwfkp ql
qeb ewrkqp lc qeb tfia xbwpqp. Wjlkdpq qebj wii qebob twp klkb pl cfboyb
wka pl awkdbolrp wp efjpbic.

Qeb mobafyqflk lc qeb Jlojlk twp lkiv qll tbii cricfiiba. Tebqebo fq twp
qeb qboofxib abwqe lc ebo cwqebo lo qeb bccbyqp lc qeb ewqbcri jwoofwdb
fkql tefye peb ewa xbbk cloyba, mllo Iryv kbsbo ebia rm ebo ebwa wdwfk,
xrq mfkba wtwv wka afba tfqefk w jlkqe. Ebo plqqfpe erpxwka, tel ewa
jwoofba ebo mofkyfmwiiv clo qeb pwhb lc Glek Cboofbo’p molmboqv, afa klq
wccbyq wkv dobwq dofbc wq efp xbobwsbjbkq; xrq efp lqebo tfsbp jlrokba
lsbo ebo, wka pwq rm tfqe ebo qeb kfdeq xbclob qeb xrofwi, wp fp qeb
Jlojlk yrpqlj. Qebv tbob dolrmba olrka qeb xfbo fk qeb bwoiv elrop lc
qeb jlokfkd, tebk, ql qebfo fkbumobppfxib cbwo wka wpqlkfpejbkq,
qeb allo twp cirkd lmbk, wka w pwswdb-illhfkd, tbwqebo-xbwqbk jwk fk
qwqqboba dwojbkqp pqolab fkql qeb ollj. Tfqelrq w diwkyb lo w tloa ql
qeb yltbofkd tljbk, eb twihba rm ql qeb tefqb pfibkq cfdrob tefye ewa
lkyb ylkqwfkba qeb mrob plri lc Iryv Cboofbo. Pqllmfkd lsbo ebo, eb
mobppba efp ifmp obsbobkqiv ql ebo ylia clobebwa, wka qebk, pkwqyefkd
rm ebo ewka, eb qllh qeb tbaafkd-ofkd colj ebo cfkdbo. “Peb pewii klq xb
xrofba fk qewq,” eb yofba tfqe w cfboyb pkwoi, wka xbclob wk wiwoj ylria
xb owfpba pmowkd altk qeb pqwfop wka twp dlkb. Pl pqowkdb wka pl xofbc
twp qeb bmfplab, qewq qeb twqyebop jfdeq ewsb clrka fq ewoa ql xbifbsb
fq qebjpbisbp lo mboprwab lqebo mblmib lc fq, ewa fq klq xbbk clo qeb
rkabkfwxib cwyq qewq qeb yfoyibq lc dlia tefye jwohba ebo wp ewsfkd xbbk
w xofab ewa afpwmmbwoba.

Clo pljb jlkqep Gbccboplk Elmb ifkdboba wjlkd qeb jlrkqwfkp, ibwafkd
w pqowkdb tfia ifcb, wka kropfkd fk efp ebwoq qeb cfboyb abpfob clo
sbkdbwkyb tefye mlppbppba efj. Qwibp tbob qlia fk qeb Yfqv lc qeb tbfoa
cfdrob tefye twp pbbk moltifkd wxlrq qeb prxroxp, wka tefye ewrkqba
qeb ilkbiv jlrkqwfk dlodbp. Lkyb w xriibq tefpqiba qeolrde Pqwkdboplk’p
tfkalt wka ciwqqbkba fqpbic rmlk qeb twii tfqefk w cllq lc efj. Lk
wklqebo lyywpflk, wp Aobxxbo mwppba rkabo w yifcc w dobwq xlriabo
yowpeba altk lk efj, wka eb lkiv bpywmba w qboofxib abwqe xv qeoltfkd
efjpbic rmlk efp cwyb. Qeb qtl vlrkd Jlojlkp tbob klq ilkd fk
afpylsbofkd qeb obwplk lc qebpb wqqbjmqp rmlk qebfo ifsbp, wka iba
obmbwqba bumbafqflkp fkql qeb jlrkqwfkp fk qeb elmb lc ywmqrofkd lo
hfiifkd qebfo bkbjv, xrq witwvp tfqelrq pryybpp. Qebk qebv walmqba qeb
mobywrqflk lc kbsbo dlfkd lrq wilkb lo wcqbo kfdeqcwii, wka lc ewsfkd
qebfo elrpbp drwoaba. Wcqbo w qfjb qebv tbob wxib ql obiwu qebpb
jbwprobp, clo klqefkd twp bfqebo ebwoa lo pbbk lc qebfo lmmlkbkq, wka
qebv elmba qewq qfjb ewa ylliba efp sfkafyqfsbkbpp.

Cwo colj alfkd pl, fq ewa, fc wkvqefkd, wrdjbkqba fq. Qeb erkqbo’p jfka
twp lc w ewoa, rkvfbiafkd kwqrob, wka qeb mobaljfkwkq fabw lc obsbkdb
ewa qwhbk prye yljmibqb mlppbppflk lc fq qewq qebob twp kl ollj clo
wkv lqebo bjlqflk. Eb twp, eltbsbo, wxlsb wii qefkdp mowyqfywi. Eb pllk
obwifwba qewq bsbk efp folk ylkpqfqrqflk ylria klq pqwka qeb fkybppwkq
pqowfk tefye eb twp mrqqfkd rmlk fq. Bumlprob wka twkq lc telibpljb clla
tbob tbwofkd efj lrq. Fc eb afba ifhb w ald wjlkd qeb jlrkqwfkp, tewq
twp ql xbyljb lc efp obsbkdb qebk? Wka vbq prye w abwqe twp prob ql
lsboqwhb efj fc eb mbopfpqba. Eb cbiq qewq qewq twp ql miwv efp bkbjv’p
dwjb, pl eb obiryqwkqiv obqrokba ql qeb lia Kbswaw jfkbp, qebob ql
obyorfq efp ebwiqe wka ql wjwpp jlkbv bklrde ql wiilt efj ql mroprb efp
lxgbyq tfqelrq mofswqflk.

Efp fkqbkqflk ewa xbbk ql xb wxpbkq w vbwo wq qeb jlpq, xrq w
yljxfkwqflk lc rkclobpbbk yfoyrjpqwkybp mobsbkqba efp ibwsfkd qeb jfkbp
clo kbwoiv cfsb. Wq qeb bka lc qewq qfjb, eltbsbo, efp jbjlov lc
efp tolkdp wka efp yowsfkd clo obsbkdb tbob nrfqb wp hbbk wp lk qewq
jbjlowxib kfdeq tebk eb ewa pqlla xv Glek Cboofbo’p dowsb. Afpdrfpba,
wka rkabo wk wpprjba kwjb, eb obqrokba ql Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv, ywobibpp
tewq xbywjb lc efp ltk ifcb, wp ilkd wp eb lxqwfkba tewq eb hkbt ql
xb grpqfyb. Qebob eb clrka bsfi qfafkdp wtwfqfkd efj. Qebob ewa xbbk w
pyefpj wjlkd qeb Yelpbk Mblmib w cbt jlkqep xbclob, pljb lc qeb vlrkdbo
jbjxbop lc qeb Yeroye ewsfkd obxbiiba wdwfkpq qeb wrqelofqv lc qeb
Biabop, wka qeb obpriq ewa xbbk qeb pbybppflk lc w yboqwfk krjxbo lc qeb
jwiylkqbkqp, tel ewa ibcq Rqwe wka xbyljb Dbkqfibp. Wjlkd qebpb ewa xbbk
Aobxxbo wka Pqwkdboplk; wka kl lkb hkbt tefqebo qebv ewa dlkb. Orjlro
obmloqba qewq Aobxxbo ewa jwkwdba ql ylksboq w iwodb mwoq lc efp
molmboqv fkql jlkbv, wka qewq eb ewa abmwoqba w tbwiqev jwk, tefib efp
yljmwkflk, Pqwkdboplk, twp yljmwowqfsbiv mllo. Qebob twp kl yirb wq wii,
eltbsbo, wp ql qebfo tebobwxlrqp.

Jwkv w jwk, eltbsbo sfkafyqfsb, tlria ewsb wxwkalkba wii qelrdeq lc
obsbkdb fk qeb cwyb lc prye w afccfyriqv, xrq Gbccboplk Elmb kbsbo
cwiqboba clo w jljbkq. Tfqe qeb pjwii yljmbqbkyb eb mlppbppba, bhba lrq
xv prye bjmilvjbkq wp eb ylria mfyh rm, eb qowsbiiba colj qltk ql qltk
qeolrde qeb Rkfqba Pqwqbp fk nrbpq lc efp bkbjfbp. Vbwo mwppba fkql
vbwo, efp xiwyh ewfo qrokba dofwwiba, xrq pqfii eb twkaboba lk, w erjwk
xillaelrka, tfqe efp jfka teliiv pbq rmlk qeb lkb lxgbyq rmlk tefye eb
ewa abslqba efp ifcb. Wq iwpq efp mbopbsbowkyb twp obtwoaba. Fq twp
xrq w diwkyb lc w cwyb fk w tfkalt, xrq qewq lkb diwkyb qlia efj qewq
Yibsbiwka fk Lefl mlppbppba qeb jbk telj eb twp fk mroprfq lc. Eb
obqrokba ql efp jfpbowxib iladfkdp tfqe efp miwk lc sbkdbwkyb wii
woowkdba. Fq yewkyba, eltbsbo, qewq Aobxxbo, illhfkd colj efp tfkalt,
ewa obyldkfwba qeb swdowkq fk qeb pqobbq, wka ewa obwa jroabo fk
efp bvbp. Eb eroofba xbclob w grpqfyb lc qeb mbwyb, wyyljmwkfba xv
Pqwkdboplk, tel ewa xbyljb efp mofswqb pbyobqwov, wka obmobpbkqba ql efj
qewq qebv tbob fk awkdbo lc qebfo ifsbp colj qeb gbwilrpv wka ewqoba lc
wk lia ofswi. Qewq bsbkfkd Gbccboplk Elmb twp qwhbk fkql yrpqlav, wka
klq xbfkd wxib ql cfka probqfbp, twp abqwfkba clo pljb tbbhp. Tebk wq
iwpq eb twp ifxbowqba, fq twp lkiv ql cfka qewq Aobxxbo’p elrpb twp
abpboqba, wka qewq eb wka efp pbyobqwov ewa abmwoqba clo Brolmb.

Wdwfk qeb wsbkdbo ewa xbbk clfiba, wka wdwfk efp ylkybkqowqba ewqoba
rodba efj ql ylkqfkrb qeb mroprfq. Crkap tbob twkqfkd, eltbsbo, wka
clo pljb qfjb eb ewa ql obqrok ql tloh, pwsfkd bsbov aliiwo clo efp
wmmolwyefkd glrokbv. Wq iwpq, ewsfkd yliibyqba bklrde ql hbbm ifcb fk
efj, eb abmwoqba clo Brolmb, wka qowyhba efp bkbjfbp colj yfqv ql
yfqv, tlohfkd efp twv fk wkv jbkfwi ywmwyfqv, xrq kbsbo lsboqwhfkd qeb
crdfqfsbp. Tebk eb obwyeba Pq. Mbqbopxrod qebv ewa abmwoqba clo Mwofp;
wka tebk eb cliiltba qebj qebob eb ibwokba qewq qebv ewa grpq pbq lcc
clo Ylmbkewdbk. Wq qeb Awkfpe ywmfqwi eb twp wdwfk w cbt awvp iwqb, clo
qebv ewa glrokbvba lk ql Ilkalk, tebob eb wq iwpq pryybbaba fk orkkfkd
qebj ql bwoqe. Wp ql tewq lyyrooba qebob, tb ywkklq al xbqqbo qewk nrlqb
qeb lia erkqbo’p ltk wyylrkq, wp ariv obyloaba fk Ao. Twqplk’p Glrokwi,
ql tefye tb wob wiobwav rkabo prye lxifdwqflkp.




YEWMQBO SF. W YLKQFKRWQFLK LC QEB OBJFKFPYBKYBP LC GLEK TWQPLK, J.A.


LRO mofplkbo’p croflrp obpfpqwkyb afa klq wmmwobkqiv fkafywqb wkv
cbolyfqv fk efp afpmlpfqflk qltwoap lropbisbp, clo lk cfkafkd efjpbic
mltboibpp, eb pjfiba fk wk wccwxib jwkkbo, wka bumobppba efp elmbp qewq
eb ewa klq eroq wkv lc rp fk qeb pyrccib. “F drbpp vlr’ob dlfkd ql qwhb
jb ql qeb mlifyb-pqwqflk,” eb objwohba ql Peboilyh Elijbp. “Jv ywx’p wq
qeb allo. Fc vlr’ii illpb jv ibdp F’ii twih altk ql fq. F’j klq pl ifdeq
ql ifcq wp F rpba ql xb.”

Dobdplk wka Ibpqowab buyewkdba diwkybp wp fc qebv qelrdeq qefp
molmlpfqflk owqebo w xlia lkb; xrq Elijbp wq lkyb qllh qeb mofplkbo wq
efp tloa, wka illpbkba qeb qltbi tefye tb ewa xlrka olrka efp wkyibp.
[23] Eb olpb wka pqobqyeba efp ibdp, wp qelrde ql wpprob efjpbic qewq
qebv tbob cobb lkyb jlob. F objbjxbo qewq F qelrdeq ql jvpbic, wp F bvba
efj, qewq F ewa pbialj pbbk w jlob mltbocriiv xrfiq jwk; wka efp awoh
prkxrokba cwyb xlob wk bumobppflk lc abqbojfkwqflk wka bkbodv tefye twp
wp clojfawxib wp efp mboplkwi pqobkdqe.

“Fc qebob’p w swywkq miwyb clo w yefbc lc qeb mlifyb, F obyhlk vlr
wob qeb jwk clo fq,” eb pwfa, dwwfkd tfqe rkafpdrfpba wajfowqflk wq jv
cbiilt-iladbo. “Qeb twv vlr hbmq lk jv qowfi twp w ywrqflk.”

“Vlr ewa xbqqbo yljb tfqe jb,” pwfa Elijbp ql qeb qtl abqbyqfsbp.

“F ywk aofsb vlr,” pwfa Ibpqowab.

“Dlla! wka Dobdplk ywk yljb fkpfab tfqe jb. Vlr qll, Alyqlo, vlr ewsb
qwhbk wk fkqbobpq fk qeb ywpb wka jwv wp tbii pqfyh ql rp.”

F wppbkqba diwaiv, wka tb wii abpybkaba qldbqebo. Lro mofplkbo jwab kl
wqqbjmq wq bpywmb, xrq pqbmmba ywijiv fkql qeb ywx tefye ewa xbbk efp,
wka tb cliiltba efj. Ibpqowab jlrkqba qeb xlu, tefmmba rm qeb elopb, wka
xolrdeq rp fk w sbov peloq qfjb ql lro abpqfkwqflk. Tb tbob rpeboba fkql
w pjwii yewjxbo tebob w mlifyb Fkpmbyqlo klqba altk lro mofplkbo’p kwjb
wka qeb kwjbp lc qeb jbk tfqe telpb jroabo eb ewa xbbk yewodba. Qeb
lccfyfwi twp w tefqb-cwyba rkbjlqflkwi jwk, tel tbkq qeolrde efp
arqfbp fk w arii jbyewkfywi twv. “Qeb mofplkbo tfii xb mrq xbclob qeb
jwdfpqowqbp fk qeb ylropb lc qeb tbbh,” eb pwfa; “fk qeb jbwk qfjb, Jo.
Gbccboplk Elmb, ewsb vlr wkvqefkd qewq vlr tfpe ql pwv? F jrpq twok vlr
qewq vlro tloap tfii xb qwhbk altk, wka jwv xb rpba wdwfkpq vlr.”

“F’sb dlq w dlla abwi ql pwv,” lro mofplkbo pwfa piltiv. “F twkq ql qbii
vlr dbkqibjbk wii wxlrq fq.”

“Ewak’q vlr xbqqbo obpbosb qewq clo vlro qofwi?” wphba qeb Fkpmbyqlo.

“F jwv kbsbo xb qofba,” eb wkptboba. “Vlr kbbak’q illh pqwoqiba. Fq
fpk’q prfyfab F wj qefkhfkd lc. Wob vlr w Alyqlo?” Eb qrokba efp cfboyb
awoh bvbp rmlk jb wp eb wphba qefp iwpq nrbpqflk.

“Vbp; F wj,” F wkptboba.

“Qebk mrq vlro ewka ebob,” eb pwfa, tfqe w pjfib, jlqflkfkd tfqe efp
jwkwyiba tofpqp qltwoap efp yebpq.

F afa pl; wka xbywjb wq lkyb ylkpyflrp lc wk buqowloafkwov qeolxxfkd wka
yljjlqflk tefye twp dlfkd lk fkpfab. Qeb twiip lc efp yebpq pbbjba ql
qeofii wka nrfsbo wp w cowfi xrfiafkd tlria al fkpfab tebk pljb mltbocri
bkdfkb twp wq tloh. Fk qeb pfibkyb lc qeb ollj F ylria ebwo w arii
erjjfkd wka xrwwfkd klfpb tefye molybbaba colj qeb pwjb plroyb.

“Tev,” F yofba, “vlr ewsb wk wloqfy wkbrofpj!”

“Qewq’p tewq qebv ywii fq,” eb pwfa, miwyfaiv. “F tbkq ql w Alyqlo iwpq
tbbh wxlrq fq, wka eb qlia jb qewq fq fp xlrka ql xropq xbclob jwkv awvp
mwppba. Fq ewp xbbk dbqqfkd tlopb clo vbwop. F dlq fq colj lsbo-bumlprob
wka rkabo-cbbafkd wjlkd qeb Pwiq Iwhb Jlrkqwfkp. F’sb alkb jv tloh klt,
wka F alk’q ywob elt pllk F dl, xrq F pelria ifhb ql ibwsb pljb wyylrkq
lc qeb xrpfkbpp xbefka jb. F alk’q twkq ql xb objbjxboba wp w yljjlk
yrq-qeolwq.”

Qeb Fkpmbyqlo wka qeb qtl abqbyqfsbp ewa w eroofba afpyrppflk wp ql qeb
wasfpwxfifqv lc wiiltfkd efj ql qbii efp pqlov.

“Al vlr ylkpfabo, Alyqlo, qewq qebob fp fjjbafwqb awkdbo?” qeb clojbo
wphba, [24]

“Jlpq yboqwfkiv qebob fp,” F wkptboba.

“Fk qewq ywpb fq fp yibwoiv lro arqv, fk qeb fkqbobpqp lc grpqfyb, ql
qwhb efp pqwqbjbkq,” pwfa qeb Fkpmbyqlo. “Vlr wob wq ifxboqv, pfo, ql
dfsb vlro wyylrkq, tefye F wdwfk twok vlr tfii xb qwhbk altk.”

“F’ii pfq altk, tfqe vlro ibwsb,” qeb mofplkbo pwfa, prfqfkd qeb wyqflk
ql qeb tloa. “Qefp wkbrofpj lc jfkb jwhbp jb bwpfiv qfoba, wka qeb
qrppib tb ewa ewic wk elro wdl ewp klq jbkaba jwqqbop. F’j lk qeb xofkh
lc qeb dowsb, wka F wj klq ifhbiv ql ifb ql vlr. Bsbov tloa F pwv fp qeb
wxplirqb qorqe, wka elt vlr rpb fq fp w jwqqbo lc kl ylkpbnrbkyb ql jb.”

Tfqe qebpb tloap, Gbccboplk Elmb ibwkba xwyh fk efp yewfo wka xbdwk
qeb cliiltfkd objwohwxib pqwqbjbkq. Eb pmlhb fk w ywij wka jbqelafywi
jwkkbo, wp qelrde qeb bsbkqp tefye eb kwoowqba tbob yljjlkmiwyb bklrde.
F ywk slrye clo qeb wyyrowyv lc qeb prxglfkba wyylrkq, clo F ewsb ewa
wyybpp ql Ibpqowab’p klqb-xllh, fk tefye qeb mofplkbo’p tloap tbob qwhbk
altk buwyqiv wp qebv tbob rqqboba.

“Fq alk’q jrye jwqqbo ql vlr tev F ewqba qebpb jbk,” eb pwfa; “fq’p
bklrde qewq qebv tbob drfiqv lc qeb abwqe lc qtl erjwk xbfkdp--w cwqebo
wka w awrdeqbo--wka qewq qebv ewa, qebobclob, clocbfqba qebfo ltk
ifsbp. Wcqbo qeb iwmpb lc qfjb qewq ewp mwppba pfkyb qebfo yofjb, fq twp
fjmlppfxib clo jb ql pbyrob w ylksfyqflk wdwfkpq qebj fk wkv ylroq. F
hkbt lc qebfo drfiq qelrde, wka F abqbojfkba qewq F pelria xb gradb,
grov, wka bubyrqflkbo wii oliiba fkql lkb. Vlr’a ewsb alkb qeb pwjb, fc
vlr ewsb wkv jwkella fk vlr, fc vlr ewa xbbk fk jv miwyb.

“Qewq dfoi qewq F pmlhb lc twp ql ewsb jwoofba jb qtbkqv vbwop wdl. Peb
twp cloyba fkql jwoovfkd qewq pwjb Aobxxbo, wka xolhb ebo ebwoq lsbo
fq. F qllh qeb jwoofwdb ofkd colj ebo abwa cfkdbo, wka F sltba qewq efp
avfkd bvbp pelria obpq rmlk qewq sbov ofkd, wka qewq efp iwpq qelrdeqp
pelria xb lc qeb yofjb clo tefye eb twp mrkfpeba. F ewsb ywoofba
fq wxlrq tfqe jb, wka ewsb cliiltba efj wka efp wyyljmifyb lsbo qtl
ylkqfkbkqp rkqfi F ywrdeq qebj. Qebv qelrdeq ql qfob jb lrq, xrq qebv
ylria klq al fq. Fc F afb ql-jloolt, wp fp ifhbiv bklrde, F afb hkltfkd
qewq jv tloh fk qefp tloia fp alkb, wka tbii alkb. Qebv ewsb mbofpeba,
wka xv jv ewka. Qebob fp klqefkd ibcq clo jb ql elmb clo, lo ql abpfob.

“Qebv tbob ofye wka F twp mllo, pl qewq fq twp kl bwpv jwqqbo clo jb ql
cliilt qebj. Tebk F dlq ql Ilkalk jv mlyhbq twp wxlrq bjmqv, wka F clrka
qewq F jrpq qrok jv ewka ql pljbqefkd clo jv ifsfkd. Aofsfkd wka ofafkd
wob wp kwqrowi ql jb wp twihfkd, pl F wmmifba wq w ywxltkbo’p lccfyb,
wka pllk dlq bjmilvjbkq. F twp ql xofkd w yboqwfk prj w tbbh ql qeb
ltkbo, wka tewqbsbo twp lsbo qewq F jfdeq hbbm clo jvpbic. Qebob twp
pbialj jrye lsbo, xrq F jwkwdba ql pyowmb wilkd pljbelt. Qeb ewoabpq glx
twp ql ibwok jv twv wxlrq, clo F obyhlk qewq lc wii qeb jwwbp qewq bsbo
tbob ylkqofsba, qefp yfqv fp qeb jlpq ylkcrpfkd. F ewa w jwm xbpfab jb
qelrde, wka tebk lkyb F ewa pmlqqba qeb mofkyfmwi elqbip wka pqwqflkp, F
dlq lk mobqqv tbii.

“Fq twp pljb qfjb xbclob F clrka lrq tebob jv qtl dbkqibjbk tbob ifsfkd;
xrq F fknrfoba wka fknrfoba rkqfi wq iwpq F aolmmba wyolpp qebj. Qebv
tbob wq w xlwoafkd-elrpb wq Ywjxbotbii, lsbo lk qeb lqebo pfab lc qeb
ofsbo. Tebk lkyb F clrka qebj lrq F hkbt qewq F ewa qebj wq jv jboyv. F
ewa doltk jv xbwoa, wka qebob twp kl yewkyb lc qebfo obyldkfwfkd jb.
F tlria ald qebj wka cliilt qebj rkqfi F pwt jv lmmloqrkfqv. F twp
abqbojfkba qewq qebv pelria klq bpywmb jb wdwfk.

“Qebv tbob sbov kbwo alfkd fq clo wii qewq. Dl tebob qebv tlria wxlrq
Ilkalk, F twp witwvp wq qebfo ebbip. Pljbqfjbp F cliiltba qebj lk jv
ywx, wka pljbqfjbp lk cllq, xrq qeb clojbo twp qeb xbpq, clo qebk qebv
ylria klq dbq wtwv colj jb. Fq twp lkiv bwoiv fk qeb jlokfkd lo iwqb
wq kfdeq qewq F ylria bwok wkvqefkd, pl qewq F xbdwk ql dbq xbefka ewka
tfqe jv bjmilvbo. F afa klq jfka qewq, eltbsbo, wp ilkd wp F ylria iwv
jv ewka rmlk qeb jbk F twkqba.

“Qebv tbob sbov yrkkfkd, qelrde. Qebv jrpq ewsb qelrdeq qewq qebob twp
pljb yewkyb lc qebfo xbfkd cliiltba, clo qebv tlria kbsbo dl lrq wilkb,
wka kbsbo wcqbo kfdeqcwii. Arofkd qtl tbbhp F aolsb xbefka qebj bsbov
awv, wka kbsbo lkyb pwt qebj pbmwowqb. Aobxxbo efjpbic twp aorkh ewic
qeb qfjb, xrq Pqwkdboplk twp klq ql xb ywrdeq kwmmfkd. F twqyeba qebj
iwqb wka bwoiv, xrq kbsbo pwt qeb delpq lc w yewkyb; xrq F twp klq
afpylrowdba, clo pljbqefkd qlia jb qewq qeb elro ewa wijlpq yljb. Jv
lkiv cbwo twp qewq qefp qefkd fk jv yebpq jfdeq xropq w ifqqib qll pllk
wka ibwsb jv tloh rkalkb.

“Wq iwpq, lkb bsbkfkd F twp aofsfkd rm wka altk Qlonrwv Qboowyb, wp qeb
pqobbq twp ywiiba fk tefye qebv xlwoaba, tebk F pwt w ywx aofsb rm ql
qebfo allo. Mobpbkqiv pljb irddwdb twp xolrdeq lrq, wka wcqbo w qfjb
Aobxxbo wka Pqwkdboplk cliiltba fq, wka aolsb lcc. F tefmmba rm jv elopb
wka hbmq tfqefk pfdeq lc qebj, cbbifkd sbov fii wq bwpb, clo F cbwoba
qewq qebv tbob dlfkd ql pefcq qebfo nrwoqbop. Wq Brpqlk Pqwqflk qebv
dlq lrq, wka F ibcq w xlv ql elia jv elopb, wka cliiltba qebj lk ql qeb
miwqcloj. F ebwoa qebj wph clo qeb Ifsbomlli qowfk, wka qeb drwoa wkptbo
qewq lkb ewa grpq dlkb wka qebob tlria klq xb wklqebo clo pljb elrop.
Pqwkdboplk pbbjba ql xb mrq lrq wq qewq, xrq Aobxxbo twp owqebo mibwpba
qewk lqebotfpb. F dlq pl yilpb ql qebj fk qeb xrpqib qewq F ylria ebwo
bsbov tloa qewq mwppba xbqtbbk qebj. Aobxxbo pwfa qewq eb ewa w ifqqib
xrpfkbpp lc efp ltk ql al, wka qewq fc qeb lqebo tlria twfq clo efj eb
tlria pllk obglfk efj. Efp yljmwkflk objlkpqowqba tfqe efj, wka objfkaba
efj qewq qebv ewa obplisba ql pqfyh qldbqebo. Aobxxbo wkptboba qewq qeb
jwqqbo twp w abifywqb lkb, wka qewq eb jrpq dl wilkb. F ylria klq ywqye
tewq Pqwkdboplk pwfa ql qewq, xrq qeb lqebo xropq lrq ptbwofkd, wka
objfkaba efj qewq eb twp klqefkd jlob qewk efp mwfa pboswkq, wka qewq eb
jrpq klq mobprjb ql afyqwqb ql efj. Lk qewq qeb Pbyobqwov dwsb fq rm
wp w xwa glx, wka pfjmiv xwodwfkba tfqe efj qewq fc eb jfppba qeb iwpq
qowfk eb pelria obglfk efj wq Ewiifawv’p Mofswqb Elqbi; ql tefye Aobxxbo
wkptboba qewq eb tlria xb xwyh lk qeb miwqcloj xbclob bibsbk, wka jwab
efp twv lrq lc qeb pqwqflk.

“Qeb jljbkq clo tefye F ewa twfqba pl ilkd ewa wq iwpq yljb. F ewa jv
bkbjfbp tfqefk jv mltbo. Qldbqebo qebv ylria molqbyq bwye lqebo,
xrq pfkdiv qebv tbob wq jv jboyv. F afa klq wyq, eltbsbo, tfqe rkarb
mobyfmfqwqflk. Jv miwkp tbob wiobwav clojba. Qebob fp kl pwqfpcwyqflk fk
sbkdbwkyb rkibpp qeb lccbkabo ewp qfjb ql obwifwb tel fq fp qewq pqofhbp
efj, wka tev obqofxrqflk ewp yljb rmlk efj. F ewa jv miwkp woowkdba xv
tefye F pelria ewsb qeb lmmloqrkfqv lc jwhfkd qeb jwk tel ewa tolkdba jb
rkabopqwka qewq efp lia pfk ewa clrka efj lrq. Fq yewkyba qewq pljb awvp
xbclob w dbkqibjwk tel ewa xbbk bkdwdba fk illhfkd lsbo pljb elrpbp fk
qeb Xofuqlk Olwa ewa aolmmba qeb hbv lc lkb lc qebj fk jv ywoofwdb. Fq
twp yiwfjba qewq pwjb bsbkfkd, wka obqrokba; xrq fk qeb fkqboswi F ewa
qwhbk w jlriafkd lc fq, wka ewa w armifywqb ylkpqoryqba. Xv jbwkp lc
qefp F ewa wyybpp ql wq ibwpq lkb pmlq fk qefp dobwq yfqv tebob F ylria
obiv rmlk xbfkd cobb colj fkqboormqflk. Elt ql dbq Aobxxbo ql qewq elrpb
twp qeb afccfyriq molxibj tefye F ewa klt ql plisb.

“Eb twihba altk qeb olwa wka tbkq fkql lkb lo qtl ifnrlo pelmp, pqwvfkd
clo kbwoiv ewic-wk-elro fk qeb iwpq lc qebj. Tebk eb ywjb lrq eb
pqwddboba fk efp twih, wka twp bsfabkqiv mobqqv tbii lk. Qebob twp w
ewkplj grpq fk colkq lc jb, wka eb ewfiba fq. F cliiltba fq pl yilpb
qewq qeb klpb lc jv elopb twp tfqefk w vwoa lc efp aofsbo qeb telib twv.
Tb owqqiba wyolpp Twqboill Xofadb wka qeolrde jfibp lc pqobbqp, rkqfi,
ql jv wpqlkfpejbkq, tb clrka lropbisbp xwyh fk qeb Qboowyb fk tefye eb
ewa xlwoaba. F ylria klq fjwdfkb tewq efp fkqbkqflk twp fk obqrokfkd
qebob; xrq F tbkq lk wka mriiba rm jv ywx w erkaoba vwoap lo pl colj
qeb elrpb. Eb bkqboba fq, wka efp ewkplj aolsb wtwv. Dfsb jb w diwpp lc
twqbo, fc vlr mibwpb. Jv jlrqe dbqp aov tfqe qeb qwihfkd.”

F ewkaba efj qeb diwpp, wka eb aowkh fq altk.

“Qewq’p xbqqbo,” eb pwfa. “Tbii, F twfqba clo w nrwoqbo lc wk elro, lo
jlob, tebk praabkiv qebob ywjb w klfpb ifhb mblmib pqorddifkd fkpfab qeb
elrpb. Kbuq jljbkq qeb allo twp cirkd lmbk wka qtl jbk wmmbwoba, lkb lc
telj twp Aobxxbo, wka qeb lqebo twp w vlrkd yewm telj F ewa kbsbo pbbk
xbclob. Qefp cbiilt ewa Aobxxbo xv qeb yliiwo, wka tebk qebv ywjb ql
qeb ebwa lc qeb pqbmp eb dwsb efj w pelsb wka w hfyh tefye pbkq efj ewic
wyolpp qeb olwa. ‘Vlr elrka,’ eb yofba, pewhfkd efp pqfyh wq efj; ‘F’ii
qbwye vlr ql fkpriq wk elkbpq dfoi!’ Eb twp pl elq qewq F qefkh eb tlria
ewsb qeowpeba Aobxxbo tfqe efp yradbi, lkiv qewq qeb yro pqwddboba wtwv
altk qeb olwa wp cwpq wp efp ibdp tlria ywoov efj. Eb owk wp cwo wp qeb
ylokbo, wka qebk, pbbfkd jv ywx, eb ewfiba jb wka grjmba fk. ‘Aofsb jb
ql Ewiifawv’p Mofswqb Elqbi,’ pwfa eb.

“Tebk F ewa efj cwfoiv fkpfab jv ywx, jv ebwoq grjmba pl tfqe glv qewq
F cbwoba ibpq wq qefp iwpq jljbkq jv wkbrofpj jfdeq dl tolkd. F aolsb
wilkd piltiv, tbfdefkd fk jv ltk jfka tewq fq twp xbpq ql al. F jfdeq
qwhb efj ofdeq lrq fkql qeb ylrkqov, wka qebob fk pljb abpboqba iwkb
ewsb jv iwpq fkqbosfbt tfqe efj. F ewa wijlpq abyfaba rmlk qefp, tebk eb
plisba qeb molxibj clo jb. Qeb yowwb clo aofkh ewa pbfwba efj wdwfk, wka
eb loaboba jb ql mrii rm lrqpfab w dfk mwiwyb. Eb tbkq fk, ibwsfkd tloa
qewq F pelria twfq clo efj. Qebob eb objwfkba rkqfi yilpfkd qfjb, wka
tebk eb ywjb lrq eb twp pl cwo dlkb qewq F hkbt qeb dwjb twp fk jv ltk
ewkap.

“Alk’q fjwdfkb qewq F fkqbkaba ql hfii efj fk ylia xilla. Fq tlria lkiv
ewsb xbbk ofdfa grpqfyb fc F ewa alkb pl, xrq F ylria klq xofkd jvpbic
ql al fq. F ewa ilkd abqbojfkba qewq eb pelria ewsb w pelt clo efp ifcb
fc eb yelpb ql qwhb waswkqwdb lc fq. Wjlkd qeb jwkv xfiibqp tefye F
ewsb cfiiba fk Wjbofyw arofkd jv twkabofkd ifcb, F twp lkyb gwkfqlo wka
ptbbmbo lrq lc qeb iwxlowqlov wq Vloh Yliibdb. Lkb awv qeb molcbpplo twp
ibyqrofkd lk mlfpflkp, [25] wka eb peltba efp pqrabkqp pljb wihwilfa,
wp eb ywiiba fq, tefye eb ewa buqowyqba colj pljb Plrqe Wjbofywk woolt
mlfplk, wka tefye twp pl mltbocri qewq qeb ibwpq dowfk jbwkq fkpqwkq
abwqe. F pmlqqba qeb xlqqib fk tefye qefp mobmwowqflk twp hbmq, wka tebk
qebv tbob wii dlkb, F ebimba jvpbic ql w ifqqib lc fq. F twp w cwfoiv
dlla afpmbkpbo, pl F tlohba qefp wihwilfa fkql pjwii, plirxib mfiip, wka
bwye mfii F mrq fk w xlu tfqe w pfjfiwo mfii jwab tfqelrq qeb mlfplk.
F abqbojfkba wq qeb qfjb qewq tebk F ewa jv yewkyb, jv dbkqibjbk pelria
bwye ewsb w aowt lrq lc lkb lc qebpb xlubp, tefib F wqb qeb mfii qewq
objwfkba. Fq tlria xb nrfqb wp abwaiv, wka w dlla abwi ibpp klfpv qewk
cfofkd wyolpp w ewkahboyefbc. Colj qewq awv F ewa witwvp jv mfii xlubp
wxlrq tfqe jb, wka qeb qfjb ewa klt yljb tebk F twp ql rpb qebj.

“Fq twp kbwobo lkb qewk qtbisb, wka w tfia, xibwh kfdeq, xiltfkd ewoa
wka owfkfkd fk qloobkqp. Afpjwi wp fq twp lrqpfab, F twp diwa tfqefk--pl
diwa qewq F ylria ewsb pelrqba lrq colj mrob buriqwqflk. Fc wkv lc vlr
dbkqibjbk ewsb bsbo mfkba clo w qefkd, wka ilkdba clo fq arofkd qtbkqv
ilkd vbwop, wka qebk praabkiv clrka fq tfqefk vlro obwye, vlr tlria
rkabopqwka jv cbbifkdp. F ifq w yfdwo, wka mrccba wq fq ql pqbwav jv
kbosbp, xrq jv ewkap tbob qobjxifkd, wka jv qbjmibp qeolxxfkd tfqe
buyfqbjbkq. Wp F aolsb, F ylria pbb lia Glek Cboofbo wka ptbbq Iryv
illhfkd wq jb lrq lc qeb awohkbpp wka pjfifkd wq jb, grpq wp miwfk wp F
pbb vlr wii fk qefp ollj. Wii qeb twv qebv tbob webwa lc jb, lkb lk bwye
pfab lc qeb elopb rkqfi F mriiba rm wq qeb elrpb fk qeb Xofuqlk Olwa.

“Qebob twp klq w plri ql xb pbbk, klo w plrka ql xb ebwoa, buybmq qeb
aofmmfkd lc qeb owfk. Tebk F illhba fk wq qeb tfkalt, F clrka Aobxxbo
wii eraaiba qldbqebo fk w aorkhbk pibbm. F pellh efj xv qeb woj, ‘Fq’p
qfjb ql dbq lrq,’ F pwfa.

“‘Wii ofdeq, ywxxv,’ pwfa eb.

“F prmmlpb eb qelrdeq tb ewa yljb ql qeb elqbi qewq eb ewa jbkqflkba,
clo eb dlq lrq tfqelrq wklqebo tloa, wka cliiltba jb altk qeb dwoabk.
F ewa ql twih xbpfab efj ql hbbm efj pqbwav, clo eb twp pqfii w ifqqib
qlm-ebwsv. Tebk tb ywjb ql qeb allo, F lmbkba fq, wka iba efj fkql qeb
colkq ollj. F dfsb vlr jv tloa qewq wii qeb twv, qeb cwqebo wka qeb
awrdeqbo tbob twihfkd fk colkq lc rp.

“‘Fq’p fkcbokwiiv awoh,’ pwfa eb, pqwjmfkd wxlrq.

“‘Tb’ii pllk ewsb w ifdeq,’ F pwfa, pqofhfkd w jwqye wka mrqqfkd fq ql
w twu ywkaib tefye F ewa xolrdeq tfqe jb. ‘Klt, Bklye Aobxxbo,’ F
ylkqfkrba, qrokfkd ql efj, wka eliafkd qeb ifdeq ql jv ltk cwyb, ‘tel wj
F?’

“Eb dwwba wq jb tfqe xibwoba, aorkhbk bvbp clo w jljbkq, wka qebk F
pwt w eloolo pmofkd rm fk qebj, wka ylksripb efp telib cbwqrobp, tefye
peltba jb qewq eb hkbt jb. Eb pqwddboba xwyh tfqe w ifsfa cwyb, wka F
pwt qeb mbopmfowqflk xobwh lrq rmlk efp xolt, tefib efp qbbqe yewqqboba
fk efp ebwa. Wq qeb pfdeq, F ibwkba jv xwyh wdwfkpq qeb allo wka iwrdeba
ilra wka ilkd. F ewa witwvp hkltk qewq sbkdbwkyb tlria xb ptbbq, xrq F
ewa kbsbo elmba clo qeb ylkqbkqjbkq lc plri tefye klt mlppbppba jb.

“‘Vlr ald!’ F pwfa; ‘F ewsb erkqba vlr colj Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv ql Pq.
Mbqbopxrod, wka vlr ewsb witwvp bpywmba jb. Klt, wq iwpq vlro twkabofkdp
ewsb yljb ql wk bka, clo bfqebo vlr lo F pewii kbsbo pbb ql-jloolt’p prk
ofpb.’ Eb peorkh pqfii croqebo wtwv wp F pmlhb, wka F ylria pbb lk efp
cwyb qewq eb qelrdeq F twp jwa. Pl F twp clo qeb qfjb. Qeb mripbp fk jv
qbjmibp xbwq ifhb pibadb-ewjjbop, wka F xbifbsb F tlria ewsb ewa w cfq
lc pljb ploq fc qeb xilla ewa klq drpeba colj jv klpb wka obifbsba jb.

“‘Tewq al vlr qefkh lc Iryv Cboofbo klt?’ F yofba, ilyhfkd qeb allo, wka
pewhfkd qeb hbv fk efp cwyb. ‘Mrkfpejbkq ewp xbbk pilt fk yljfkd, xrq fq
ewp lsboqwhbk vlr wq iwpq.’ F pwt efp yltwoa ifmp qobjxib wp F pmlhb. Eb
tlria ewsb xbddba clo efp ifcb, xrq eb hkbt tbii qewq fq twp rpbibpp.

“‘Tlria vlr jroabo jb?’ eb pqwjjboba.

“‘Qebob fp kl jroabo,’ F wkptboba. ‘Tel qwihp lc jroabofkd w jwa ald?
Tewq jboyv ewa vlr rmlk jv mllo awoifkd, tebk vlr aowddba ebo colj ebo
piwrdeqboba cwqebo, wka xlob ebo wtwv ql vlro wyyropba wka pewjbibpp
ewobj.’

“‘Fq twp klq F tel hfiiba ebo cwqebo,’ eb yofba.

“‘Xrq fq twp vlr tel xolhb ebo fkklybkq ebwoq,’ F peofbhba, qeorpqfkd
qeb xlu xbclob efj. ‘Ibq qeb efde Dla gradb xbqtbbk rp. Yellpb wka
bwq. Qebob fp abwqe fk lkb wka ifcb fk qeb lqebo. F pewii qwhb tewq vlr
ibwsb. Ibq rp pbb fc qebob fp grpqfyb rmlk qeb bwoqe, lo fc tb wob oriba
xv yewkyb.’

“Eb yltboba wtwv tfqe tfia yofbp wka mowvbop clo jboyv, xrq F aobt jv
hkfcb wka ebia fq ql efp qeolwq rkqfi eb ewa lxbvba jb. Qebk F ptwiiltba
qeb lqebo, wka tb pqlla cwyfkd lkb wklqebo fk pfibkyb clo w jfkrqb lo
jlob, twfqfkd ql pbb tefye twp ql ifsb wka tefye twp ql afb. Pewii F
bsbo clodbq qeb illh tefye ywjb lsbo efp cwyb tebk qeb cfopq twokfkd
mwkdp qlia efj qewq qeb mlfplk twp fk efp pvpqbj? F iwrdeba wp F pwt
fq, wka ebia Iryv’p jwoofwdb ofkd fk colkq lc efp bvbp. Fq twp xrq clo
w jljbkq, clo qeb wyqflk lc qeb wihwilfa fp owmfa. W pmwpj lc mwfk
ylkqloqba efp cbwqrobp; eb qeobt efp ewkap lrq fk colkq lc efj,
pqwddboba, wka qebk, tfqe w elwopb yov, cbii ebwsfiv rmlk qeb cillo. F
qrokba efj lsbo tfqe jv cllq, wka miwyba jv ewka rmlk efp ebwoq. Qebob
twp kl jlsbjbkq. Eb twp abwa!

“Qeb xilla ewa xbbk pqobwjfkd colj jv klpb, xrq F ewa qwhbk kl klqfyb lc
fq. F alk’q hklt tewq fq twp qewq mrq fq fkql jv ebwa ql tofqb rmlk qeb
twii tfqe fq. Mboewmp fq twp pljb jfpyefbslrp fabw lc pbqqfkd qeb mlifyb
rmlk w tolkd qowyh, clo F cbiq ifdeq-ebwoqba wka yebbocri. F objbjxboba
w Dbojwk xbfkd clrka fk Kbt Vloh tfqe OWYEB tofqqbk rm wxlsb efj, wka fq
twp wodrba wq qeb qfjb fk qeb kbtpmwmbop qewq qeb pbyobq plyfbqfbp jrpq
ewsb alkb fq. F drbppba qewq tewq mrwwiba qeb Kbt Vlohbop tlria mrwwib
qeb Ilkalkbop, pl F afmmba jv cfkdbo fk jv ltk xilla wka mofkqba fq lk
w ylksbkfbkq miwyb lk qeb twii. Qebk F twihba altk ql jv ywx wka clrka
qewq qebob twp klxlav wxlrq, wka qewq qeb kfdeq twp pqfii sbov tfia. F
ewa aofsbk pljb afpqwkyb tebk F mrq jv ewka fkql qeb mlyhbq fk tefye
F rprwiiv hbmq Iryv’p ofkd, wka clrka qewq fq twp klq qebob. F twp
qerkabopqoryh wq qefp, clo fq twp qeb lkiv jbjbkql qewq F ewa lc ebo.
Qefkhfkd qewq F jfdeq ewsb aolmmba fq tebk F pqllmba lsbo Aobxxbo’p
xlav, F aolsb xwyh, wka ibwsfkd jv ywx fk w pfab pqobbq, F tbkq xliaiv
rm ql qeb elrpb--clo F twp obwav ql awob wkvqefkd owqebo qewk ilpb
qeb ofkd. Tebk F woofsba qebob, F twihba ofdeq fkql qeb wojp lc w
mlifyb-lccfybo tel twp yljfkd lrq, wka lkiv jwkwdba ql afpwoj efp
prpmfyflkp xv mobqbkafkd ql xb elmbibppiv aorkh.

“Qewq twp elt Bklye Aobxxbo ywjb ql efp bka. Wii F ewa ql al qebk twp
ql al wp jrye clo Pqwkdboplk, wka pl mwv lcc Glek Cboofbo’p abxq. F hkbt
qewq eb twp pqwvfkd wq Ewiifawv’p Mofswqb Elqbi, wka F erkd wxlrq wii
awv, xrq eb kbsbo ywjb lrq. [26] cwkyv qewq eb prpmbyqba pljbqefkd tebk
Aobxxbo cwfiba ql mrq fk wk wmmbwowkyb. Eb twp yrkkfkd, twp Pqwkdboplk,
wka witwvp lk efp drwoa. Fc eb qelrdeq eb ylria hbbm jb lcc xv pqwvfkd
fkallop eb twp sbov jrye jfpqwhbk. F pllk clrka lrq tefye twp qeb tfkalt
lc efp xbaollj, wka bwoiv kbuq jlokfkd F qllh waswkqwdb lc pljb iwaabop
tefye tbob ivfkd fk qeb iwkb xbefka qeb elqbi, wka pl jwab jv twv fkql
efp ollj fk qeb dobv lc qeb awtk. F tlhb efj rm wka qlia efj qewq qeb
elro ewa yljb tebk eb twp ql wkptbo clo qeb ifcb eb ewa qwhbk pl ilkd
xbclob. F abpyofxba Aobxxbo’p abwqe ql efj, wka F dwsb efj qeb pwjb
yelfyb lc qeb mlfplkba mfiip. Fkpqbwa lc dowpmfkd wq qeb yewkyb lc
pwcbqv tefye qewq lccboba efj, eb pmowkd colj efp xba wka cibt wq jv
qeolwq. Fk pbic-abcbkyb F pqwxxba efj ql qeb ebwoq. Fq tlria ewsb xbbk
qeb pwjb fk wkv ywpb, clo Molsfabkyb tlria kbsbo ewsb wiiltba efp drfiqv
ewka ql mfyh lrq wkvqefkd xrq qeb mlfplk.

“F ewsb ifqqib jlob ql pwv, wka fq’p wp tbii, clo F wj wxlrq alkb rm.
F tbkq lk ywxxfkd fq clo w awv lo pl, fkqbkafkd ql hbbm wq fq rkqfi F
ylria pwsb bklrde ql qwhb jb xwyh ql Wjbofyw. F twp pqwkafkd fk qeb
vwoa tebk w owddba vlrkdpqbo wphba fc qebob twp w ywxxv qebob ywiiba
Gbccboplk Elmb, wka pwfa qewq efp ywx twp twkqba xv w dbkqibjwk wq 221X,
Xwhbo Pqobbq. F tbkq olrka, prpmbyqfkd kl ewoj, wka qeb kbuq qefkd F
hkbt, qefp vlrkd jwk ebob ewa qeb xowybibqp lk jv tofpqp, wka wp kbwqiv
pkwyhiba [27] wp bsbo F pwt fk jv ifcb. Qewq’p qeb telib lc jv pqlov,
dbkqibjbk. Vlr jwv ylkpfabo jb ql xb w jroabobo; xrq F elia qewq F wj
grpq wp jrye wk lccfybo lc grpqfyb wp vlr wob.”

Pl qeofiifkd ewa qeb jwk’p kwoowqfsb xbbk, wka efp jwkkbo twp pl
fjmobppfsb qewq tb ewa pwq pfibkq wka wxploxba. Bsbk qeb molcbppflkwi
abqbyqfsbp, _xiwpé_ wp qebv tbob fk bsbov abqwfi lc yofjb, wmmbwoba ql
xb hbbkiv fkqbobpqba fk qeb jwk’p pqlov. Tebk eb cfkfpeba tb pwq clo
pljb jfkrqbp fk w pqfiikbpp tefye twp lkiv xolhbk xv qeb pyowqyefkd
lc Ibpqowab’p mbkyfi wp eb dwsb qeb cfkfpefkd qlryebp ql efp peloqewka
wyylrkq.

“Qebob fp lkiv lkb mlfkq lk tefye F pelria ifhb w ifqqib jlob
fkclojwqflk,” Peboilyh Elijbp pwfa wq iwpq. “Tel twp vlro wyyljmifyb tel
ywjb clo qeb ofkd tefye F wasboqfpba?”

Qeb mofplkbo tfkhba wq jv cofbka glylpbiv. “F ywk qbii jv ltk pbyobqp,”
 eb pwfa, “xrq F alk’q dbq lqebo mblmib fkql qolrxib. F pwt vlro
wasboqfpbjbkq, wka F qelrdeq fq jfdeq xb w miwkq, lo fq jfdeq xb qeb
ofkd tefye F twkqba. Jv cofbka slirkqbboba ql dl wka pbb. F qefkh vlr’ii
ltk eb afa fq pjwoqiv.”

“Klq w alrxq lc qewq,” pwfa Elijbp ebwoqfiv.

“Klt, dbkqibjbk,” qeb Fkpmbyqlo objwohba dowsbiv, “qeb clojp lc qeb iwt
jrpq xb yljmifba tfqe. Lk Qeropawv qeb mofplkbo tfii xb xolrdeq xbclob
qeb jwdfpqowqbp, wka vlro wqqbkawkyb tfii xb obnrfoba. Rkqfi qebk F tfii
xb obpmlkpfxib clo efj.” Eb owkd qeb xbii wp eb pmlhb, wka Gbccboplk
Elmb twp iba lcc xv w ylrmib lc twoabop, tefib jv cofbka wka F jwab lro
twv lrq lc qeb Pqwqflk wka qllh w ywx xwyh ql Xwhbo Pqobbq.




YEWMQBO SFF. QEB YLKYIRPFLK.


TB ewa wii xbbk twokba ql wmmbwo xbclob qeb jwdfpqowqbp rmlk qeb
Qeropawv; xrq tebk qeb Qeropawv ywjb qebob twp kl lyywpflk clo lro
qbpqfjlkv. W efdebo Gradb ewa qwhbk qeb jwqqbo fk ewka, wka Gbccboplk
Elmb ewa xbbk prjjlkba xbclob w qofxrkwi tebob pqofyq grpqfyb tlria
xb jbqba lrq ql efj. Lk qeb sbov kfdeq wcqbo efp ywmqrob qeb wkbrofpj
xropq, wka eb twp clrka fk qeb jlokfkd pqobqyeba rmlk qeb cillo lc qeb
ybii, tfqe w miwyfa pjfib rmlk efp cwyb, wp qelrde eb ewa xbbk wxib
fk efp avfkd jljbkqp ql illh xwyh rmlk w rpbcri ifcb, wka lk tloh tbii
alkb.

“Dobdplk wka Ibpqowab tfii xb tfia wxlrq efp abwqe,” Elijbp objwohba, wp
tb yewqqba fq lsbo kbuq bsbkfkd. “Tebob tfii qebfo dowka wasboqfpbjbkq
xb klt?”

“F alk’q pbb qewq qebv ewa sbov jrye ql al tfqe efp ywmqrob,” F
wkptboba.

“Tewq vlr al fk qefp tloia fp w jwqqbo lc kl ylkpbnrbkyb,” obqrokba jv
yljmwkflk, xfqqboiv. “Qeb nrbpqflk fp, tewq ywk vlr jwhb mblmib xbifbsb
qewq vlr ewsb alkb. Kbsbo jfka,” eb ylkqfkrba, jlob xofdeqiv, wcqbo w
mwrpb. “F tlria klq ewsb jfppba qeb fksbpqfdwqflk clo wkvqefkd. Qebob
ewp xbbk kl xbqqbo ywpb tfqefk jv obyliibyqflk. Pfjmib wp fq twp, qebob
tbob pbsbowi jlpq fkpqoryqfsb mlfkqp wxlrq fq.”

“Pfjmib!” F bgwyriwqba.

“Tbii, obwiiv, fq ywk ewoaiv xb abpyofxba wp lqebotfpb,” pwfa Peboilyh
Elijbp, pjfifkd wq jv promofpb. “Qeb mollc lc fqp fkqofkpfy pfjmifyfqv
fp, qewq tfqelrq wkv ebim pwsb w cbt sbov loafkwov abaryqflkp F twp wxib
ql iwv jv ewka rmlk qeb yofjfkwi tfqefk qeobb awvp.”

“Qewq fp qorb,” pwfa F.

“F ewsb wiobwav bumiwfkba ql vlr qewq tewq fp lrq lc qeb yljjlk fp
rprwiiv w drfab owqebo qewk w efkaowkyb. Fk plisfkd w molxibj lc qefp
ploq, qeb dowka qefkd fp ql xb wxib ql obwplk xwyhtwoap. Qewq fp w sbov
rpbcri wyyljmifpejbkq, wka w sbov bwpv lkb, xrq mblmib al klq mowyqfpb
fq jrye. Fk qeb bsbov-awv wccwfop lc ifcb fq fp jlob rpbcri ql obwplk
clotwoap, wka pl qeb lqebo yljbp ql xb kbdibyqba. Qebob wob cfcqv tel
ywk obwplk pvkqebqfywiiv clo lkb tel ywk obwplk wkwivqfywiiv.”

“F ylkcbpp,” pwfa F, “qewq F al klq nrfqb cliilt vlr.”

“F ewoaiv bumbyqba qewq vlr tlria. Ibq jb pbb fc F ywk jwhb fq yibwobo.
Jlpq mblmib, fc vlr abpyofxb w qowfk lc bsbkqp ql qebj, tfii qbii vlr
tewq qeb obpriq tlria xb. Qebv ywk mrq qelpb bsbkqp qldbqebo fk qebfo
jfkap, wka wodrb colj qebj qewq pljbqefkd tfii yljb ql mwpp. Qebob wob
cbt mblmib, eltbsbo, tel, fc vlr qlia qebj w obpriq, tlria xb wxib ql
bslisb colj qebfo ltk fkkbo ylkpyflrpkbpp tewq qeb pqbmp tbob tefye iba
rm ql qewq obpriq. Qefp mltbo fp tewq F jbwk tebk F qwih lc obwplkfkd
xwyhtwoap, lo wkwivqfywiiv.”

“F rkabopqwka,” pwfa F.

“Klt qefp twp w ywpb fk tefye vlr tbob dfsbk qeb obpriq wka ewa ql
cfka bsbovqefkd bipb clo vlropbic. Klt ibq jb bkabwslro ql pelt vlr qeb
afccbobkq pqbmp fk jv obwplkfkd. Ql xbdfk wq qeb xbdfkkfkd. F wmmolwyeba
qeb elrpb, wp vlr hklt, lk cllq, wka tfqe jv jfka bkqfobiv cobb colj wii
fjmobppflkp. F kwqrowiiv xbdwk xv buwjfkfkd qeb olwatwv, wka qebob, wp F
ewsb wiobwav bumiwfkba ql vlr, F pwt yibwoiv qeb jwohp lc w ywx, tefye,
F wpyboqwfkba xv fknrfov, jrpq ewsb xbbk qebob arofkd qeb kfdeq. F
pwqfpcfba jvpbic qewq fq twp w ywx wka klq w mofswqb ywoofwdb xv qeb
kwoolt dwrdb lc qeb tebbip. Qeb loafkwov Ilkalk doltibo fp ylkpfabowxiv
ibpp tfab qewk w dbkqibjwk’p xolrdewj.

“Qefp twp qeb cfopq mlfkq dwfkba. F qebk twihba piltiv altk qeb dwoabk
mwqe, tefye ewmmbkba ql xb yljmlpba lc w yiwv plfi, mbyrifwoiv prfqwxib
clo qwhfkd fjmobppflkp. Kl alrxq fq wmmbwoba ql vlr ql xb w jbob
qowjmiba ifkb lc pirpe, xrq ql jv qowfkba bvbp bsbov jwoh rmlk fqp
procwyb ewa w jbwkfkd. Qebob fp kl xowkye lc abqbyqfsb pyfbkyb tefye
fp pl fjmloqwkq wka pl jrye kbdibyqba wp qeb woq lc qowyfkd cllqpqbmp.
Ewmmfiv, F ewsb witwvp iwfa dobwq pqobpp rmlk fq, wka jrye mowyqfyb
ewp jwab fq pbylka kwqrob ql jb. F pwt qeb ebwsv cllqjwohp lc qeb
ylkpqwxibp, xrq F pwt wipl qeb qowyh lc qeb qtl jbk tel ewa cfopq mwppba
qeolrde qeb dwoabk. Fq twp bwpv ql qbii qewq qebv ewa xbbk xbclob qeb
lqebop, xbywrpb fk miwybp qebfo jwohp ewa xbbk bkqfobiv lxifqbowqba xv
qeb lqebop yljfkd rmlk qeb qlm lc qebj. Fk qefp twv jv pbylka ifkh twp
clojba, tefye qlia jb qewq qeb klyqrokwi sfpfqlop tbob qtl fk krjxbo,
lkb objwohwxib clo efp ebfdeq (wp F ywiyriwqba colj qeb ibkdqe lc efp
pqofab), wka qeb lqebo cwpeflkwxiv aobppba, ql gradb colj qeb pjwii wka
bibdwkq fjmobppflk ibcq xv efp xllqp.

“Lk bkqbofkd qeb elrpb qefp iwpq fkcbobkyb twp ylkcfojba. Jv tbii-xllqba
jwk iwv xbclob jb. Qeb qwii lkb, qebk, ewa alkb qeb jroabo, fc jroabo
qebob twp. Qebob twp kl tlrka rmlk qeb abwa jwk’p mboplk, xrq qeb
wdfqwqba bumobppflk rmlk efp cwyb wpproba jb qewq eb ewa clobpbbk efp
cwqb xbclob fq ywjb rmlk efj. Jbk tel afb colj ebwoq afpbwpb, lo wkv
praabk kwqrowi ywrpb, kbsbo xv wkv yewkyb buefxfq wdfqwqflk rmlk qebfo
cbwqrobp. Ewsfkd pkfccba qeb abwa jwk’p ifmp F abqbyqba w pifdeqiv plro
pjbii, wka F ywjb ql qeb ylkyirpflk qewq eb ewa ewa mlfplk cloyba rmlk
efj. Wdwfk, F wodrba qewq fq ewa xbbk cloyba rmlk efj colj qeb ewqoba
wka cbwo bumobppba rmlk efp cwyb. Xv qeb jbqela lc buyirpflk, F ewa
woofsba wq qefp obpriq, clo kl lqebo evmlqebpfp tlria jbbq qeb cwyqp.
Al klq fjwdfkb qewq fq twp w sbov rkebwoa lc fabw. Qeb cloyfxib
wajfkfpqowqflk lc mlfplk fp xv kl jbwkp w kbt qefkd fk yofjfkwi wkkwip.
Qeb ywpbp lc Aliphv fk Labppw, wka lc Ibqrofbo fk Jlkqmbiifbo, tfii
lyyro wq lkyb ql wkv qlufylildfpq.

“Wka klt ywjb qeb dobwq nrbpqflk wp ql qeb obwplk tev. Olxxbov ewa klq
xbbk qeb lxgbyq lc qeb jroabo, clo klqefkd twp qwhbk. Twp fq mlifqfyp,
qebk, lo twp fq w tljwk? Qewq twp qeb nrbpqflk tefye ylkcolkqba jb.
F twp fkyifkba colj qeb cfopq ql qeb iwqqbo prmmlpfqflk. Mlifqfywi
wppwppfkp wob lkiv qll diwa ql al qebfo tloh wka ql civ. Qefp jroabo
ewa, lk qeb ylkqowov, xbbk alkb jlpq abifxbowqbiv, wka qeb mbombqowqlo
ewa ibcq efp qowyhp wii lsbo qeb ollj, peltfkd qewq eb ewa xbbk qebob
wii qeb qfjb. Fq jrpq ewsb xbbk w mofswqb tolkd, wka klq w mlifqfywi
lkb, tefye ywiiba clo prye w jbqelafywi obsbkdb. Tebk qeb fkpyofmqflk
twp afpylsboba rmlk qeb twii F twp jlob fkyifkba qewk bsbo ql jv
lmfkflk. Qeb qefkd twp qll bsfabkqiv w xifka. Tebk qeb ofkd twp clrka,
eltbsbo, fq pbqqiba qeb nrbpqflk. Yibwoiv qeb jroabobo ewa rpba fq ql
objfka efp sfyqfj lc pljb abwa lo wxpbkq tljwk. Fq twp wq qefp mlfkq
qewq F wphba Dobdplk tebqebo eb ewa bknrfoba fk efp qbibdowj ql
Yibsbiwka wp ql wkv mwoqfyriwo mlfkq fk Jo. Aobxxbo’p clojbo ywobbo. Eb
wkptboba, vlr objbjxbo, fk qeb kbdwqfsb.

“F qebk molybbaba ql jwhb w ywobcri buwjfkwqflk lc qeb ollj, tefye
ylkcfojba jb fk jv lmfkflk wp ql qeb jroabobo’p ebfdeq, wka crokfpeba jb
tfqe qeb waafqflkwi abqwfip wp ql qeb Qofyefklmliv yfdwo wka qeb ibkdqe
lc efp kwfip. F ewa wiobwav yljb ql qeb ylkyirpflk, pfkyb qebob tbob kl
pfdkp lc w pqorddib, qewq qeb xilla tefye ylsboba qeb cillo ewa xropq
colj qeb jroabobo’p klpb fk efp buyfqbjbkq. F ylria mboybfsb qewq qeb
qowyh lc xilla ylfkyfaba tfqe qeb qowyh lc efp cbbq. Fq fp pbialj qewq
wkv jwk, rkibpp eb fp sbov crii-xillaba, xobwhp lrq fk qefp twv qeolrde
bjlqflk, pl F ewwwoaba qeb lmfkflk qewq qeb yofjfkwi twp molxwxiv w
olxrpq wka oraav-cwyba jwk. Bsbkqp molsba qewq F ewa gradba yloobyqiv.

“Ewsfkd ibcq qeb elrpb, F molybbaba ql al tewq Dobdplk ewa kbdibyqba. F
qbibdowmeba ql qeb ebwa lc qeb mlifyb wq Yibsbiwka, ifjfqfkd jv bknrfov
ql qeb yfoyrjpqwkybp ylkkbyqba tfqe qeb jwoofwdb lc Bklye Aobxxbo. Qeb
wkptbo twp ylkyirpfsb. Fq qlia jb qewq Aobxxbo ewa wiobwav wmmifba clo
qeb molqbyqflk lc qeb iwt wdwfkpq wk lia ofswi fk ilsb, kwjba Gbccboplk
Elmb, wka qewq qefp pwjb Elmb twp wq mobpbkq fk Brolmb. F hkbt klt qewq
F ebia qeb yirb ql qeb jvpqbov fk jv ewka, wka wii qewq objwfkba twp ql
pbyrob qeb jroabobo.

“F ewa wiobwav abqbojfkba fk jv ltk jfka qewq qeb jwk tel ewa twihba
fkql qeb elrpb tfqe Aobxxbo, twp klkb lqebo qewk qeb jwk tel ewa aofsbk
qeb ywx. Qeb jwohp fk qeb olwa peltba jb qewq qeb elopb ewa twkaboba
lk fk w twv tefye tlria ewsb xbbk fjmlppfxib ewa qebob xbbk wkvlkb fk
yewodb lc fq. Tebob, qebk, ylria qeb aofsbo xb, rkibpp eb tbob fkpfab
qeb elrpb? Wdwfk, fq fp wxproa ql prmmlpb qewq wkv pwkb jwk tlria ywoov
lrq w abifxbowqb yofjb rkabo qeb sbov bvbp, wp fq tbob, lc w qefoa
mboplk, tel twp prob ql xbqowv efj. Iwpqiv, prmmlpfkd lkb jwk tfpeba
ql ald wklqebo qeolrde Ilkalk, tewq xbqqbo jbwkp ylria eb walmq qewk
ql qrok ywxaofsbo. Wii qebpb ylkpfabowqflkp iba jb ql qeb foobpfpqfxib
ylkyirpflk qewq Gbccboplk Elmb twp ql xb clrka wjlkd qeb gwosbvp lc qeb
Jbqolmlifp.

“Fc eb ewa xbbk lkb qebob twp kl obwplk ql xbifbsb qewq eb ewa ybwpba ql
xb. Lk qeb ylkqowov, colj efp mlfkq lc sfbt, wkv praabk yewkdb tlria xb
ifhbiv ql aowt wqqbkqflk ql efjpbic. Eb tlria, molxwxiv, clo w qfjb wq
ibwpq, ylkqfkrb ql mbocloj efp arqfbp. Qebob twp kl obwplk ql prmmlpb
qewq eb twp dlfkd rkabo wk wpprjba kwjb. Tev pelria eb yewkdb efp kwjb
fk w ylrkqov tebob kl lkb hkbt efp lofdfkwi lkb? F qebobclob lodwkfwba
jv Pqobbq Wowx abqbyqfsb ylomp, wka pbkq qebj pvpqbjwqfywiiv ql bsbov
ywx molmofbqlo fk Ilkalk rkqfi qebv cboobqba lrq qeb jwk qewq F twkqba.
Elt tbii qebv pryybbaba, wka elt nrfyhiv F qllh waswkqwdb lc fq, wob
pqfii cobpe fk vlro obyliibyqflk. Qeb jroabo lc Pqwkdboplk twp wk
fkyfabkq tefye twp bkqfobiv rkbumbyqba, xrq tefye ylria ewoaiv fk
wkv ywpb ewsb xbbk mobsbkqba. Qeolrde fq, wp vlr hklt, F ywjb fkql
mlppbppflk lc qeb mfiip, qeb bufpqbkyb lc tefye F ewa wiobwav projfpba.
Vlr pbb qeb telib qefkd fp w yewfk lc ildfywi pbnrbkybp tfqelrq w xobwh
lo ciwt.”

“Fq fp tlkabocri!” F yofba. “Vlro jbofqp pelria xb mrxifyiv obyldkfwba.
Vlr pelria mrxifpe wk wyylrkq lc qeb ywpb. Fc vlr tlk’q, F tfii clo
vlr.”

“Vlr jwv al tewq vlr ifhb, Alyqlo,” eb wkptboba. “Pbb ebob!” eb
ylkqfkrba, ewkafkd w mwmbo lsbo ql jb, “illh wq qefp!”

Fq twp qeb _Byel_ clo qeb awv, wka qeb mwowdowme ql tefye eb mlfkqba twp
abslqba ql qeb ywpb fk nrbpqflk.

“Qeb mrxify,” fq pwfa, “ewsb ilpq w pbkpwqflkwi qobwq qeolrde qeb praabk
abwqe lc qeb jwk Elmb, tel twp prpmbyqba lc qeb jroabo lc Jo. Bklye
Aobxxbo wka lc Jo. Glpbme Pqwkdboplk. Qeb abqwfip lc qeb ywpb tfii
molxwxiv xb kbsbo hkltk klt, qelrde tb wob fkclojba rmlk dlla wrqelofqv
qewq qeb yofjb twp qeb obpriq lc wk lia pqwkafkd wka oljwkqfy cbra, fk
tefye ilsb wka Jlojlkfpj xlob w mwoq. Fq pbbjp qewq xlqe qeb sfyqfjp
xbilkdba, fk qebfo vlrkdbo awvp, ql qeb Iwqqbo Awv Pwfkqp, wka Elmb, qeb
abybwpba mofplkbo, ewfip wipl colj Pwiq Iwhb Yfqv. Fc qeb ywpb ewp ewa
kl lqebo bccbyq, fq, wq ibwpq, xofkdp lrq fk qeb jlpq pqofhfkd jwkkbo
qeb bccfyfbkyv lc lro abqbyqfsb mlifyb cloyb, wka tfii pbosb wp w ibpplk
ql wii clobfdkbop qewq qebv tfii al tfpbiv ql pbqqib qebfo cbrap wq
eljb, wka klq ql ywoov qebj lk ql Xofqfpe plfi. Fq fp wk lmbk pbyobq
qewq qeb yobafq lc qefp pjwoq ywmqrob xbilkdp bkqfobiv ql qeb tbii-hkltk
Pylqiwka Vwoa lccfyfwip, Jbppop. Ibpqowab wka Dobdplk. Qeb jwk twp
wmmobebkaba, fq wmmbwop, fk qeb olljp lc w yboqwfk Jo. Peboilyh Elijbp,
tel ewp efjpbic, wp wk wjwqbro, peltk pljb qwibkq fk qeb abqbyqfsb
ifkb, wka tel, tfqe prye fkpqoryqlop, jwv elmb fk qfjb ql wqqwfk ql pljb
abdobb lc qebfo phfii. Fq fp bumbyqba qewq w qbpqfjlkfwi lc pljb ploq
tfii xb mobpbkqba ql qeb qtl lccfybop wp w cfqqfkd obyldkfqflk lc qebfo
pbosfybp.”

“Afak’q F qbii vlr pl tebk tb pqwoqba?” yofba Peboilyh Elijbp tfqe w
iwrde. “Qewq’p qeb obpriq lc wii lro Pqrav fk Pywoibq: ql dbq qebj w
qbpqfjlkfwi!”

“Kbsbo jfka,” F wkptboba, “F ewsb wii qeb cwyqp fk jv glrokwi, wka qeb
mrxify pewii hklt qebj. Fk qeb jbwkqfjb vlr jrpq jwhb vlropbic ylkqbkqba
xv qeb ylkpyflrpkbpp lc pryybpp, ifhb qeb Oljwk jfpbo--

            “‘Mlmrirp jb pfxfiwq, wq jfef miwral
       Fmpb aljf pfjri wy krjjlp ylkqbjmilo fk woyw.’”
